COALITION OF AUTOMATED LEGAL APPLICATIONS
=========================================

**MODEL LAW FOR DECENTRALIZED** 
===============================

**AUTONOMOUS ORGANIZATIONS** 
============================

**(DAOS)**
==========

> **Contributors** (in alphabetical order)
>
> Constance Choi, Primavera De Filippi, Rick Dudley, Silke Noa Elrifai,
> Fatemeh Fannizadeh, Florence Guillaume, Andrea Leiter, Morshed Mannan,
> Greg McMullen, Sven Riva, Ori Shimony

**Contents**
============

[Executive Summary](#_c8ofrbksznxf) 2

[Model Law for Decentralized Autonomous Organizations (DAOs)\
with Explanatory
Comments](#model-law-for-decentralized-autonomous-organizations-daos-with-explanatory-comments)
5

[Chapter 1](#chapter-1). [General Provisions](#general-provisions) 10

> [Article 1. NATURE](#article-1.-nature) 10
>
> [Article 2. LEGAL PERSONALITY](#article-2.-legal-personality) 11
>
> [Article 3. DEFINITIONS](#article-3.-definitions) 12

[Chapter 2](#chapter-2). [Formation and Proof of
Existence](#formation-and-proof-of-existence) 18

> [Article 4. FORMATION
> REQUIREMENTS](#article-4.-formation-requirements) 18

[Chapter 3](#chapter-3). [Limited Liability, Asset Subscription and
Members'
Rights](#limited-liability-asset-subscription-and-members-rights) 24

> [Article 5. LIMITED LIABILITY](#article-5.-limited-liability) 24
>
> [Article 6. ASSET SUBSCRIPTION AND PAYMENT](#_xj3di6big1ol) 28
>
> [Article 7. CLASSES OF PERSONS
> PARTICIPATING](#article-7.-classes-of-persons-participating-in-the-dao)
>
> [IN THE DAO](#article-7.-classes-of-persons-participating-in-the-dao)
> 30
>
> [Article 8. VOTING RIGHTS](#article-8.-voting-rights) 33
>
> [Article 9. PROXIES](#article-9.-proxies) 33
>
> [Article 10. MINORITY PROTECTION](#article-10.-minority-protection) 34

[Chapter 4](#chapter-4). [Internal Organization and
Disclosure](#internal-organization-and-disclosure) 35

> [Article 11. INTERNAL
> ORGANIZATION](#article-11.-internal-organization) 35
>
> [Article 12. MEETINGS](#article-12.-meetings) 35
>
> [Article 13. ADMINISTRATORS](#article-13.-administrators) 37
>
> [Article 14. LEGAL REPRESENTATION](#section-17) 38
>
> [Article 15. NO IMPLICIT FIDUCIARY STATUS](#section-18) 39

[Chapter 5](#section-20). [DAO specific
provisions](#dao-specific-provisions) 42

> [Article 16. CONTENTIOUS FORKS IN
> THE](#article-16.-contentious-forks-in-the-underlying-blockchain)
>
> [UNDERLYING
> BLOCKCHAIN](#article-16.-contentious-forks-in-the-underlying-blockchain)
> 44
>
> [Article 17. DAO RESTRUCTURING](#article-17.-dao-restructuring) 46
>
> [Article 18. FAILURE EVENT](#article-18.-failure-event) 48

[Chapter 6](#chapter-6). [Miscellaneous
Provisions](#miscellaneous-provisions) 49

> [Article 19. APPLICATION OF GENERAL
> BUSINESS](#article-19.-application-of-general-business-organization-law)
>
> [ORGANIZATION
> LAW](#article-19.-application-of-general-business-organization-law) 49
>
> [Article 20. TAXATION OF DAOs](#article-20.-taxation-of-daos) 50

 

**MODEL LAW FOR DECENTRALIZED** 
===============================

**AUTONOMOUS ORGANIZATIONS** 
============================

**(DAOS)**
==========

 

**Executive Summary**
=====================

New models of blockchain-based organizations, often referred to as
Decentralized Autonomous Organizations (DAOs), face significant legal
uncertainty that can be detrimental to their development and
utilization. This Model Law (ML) aims to create uniformity and legal
certainty, while, unlike other regulatory frameworks for DAOs, still
accommodating flexibility for further innovation by not imposing formal
registration requirements.

The drafters and contributors to the ML have sought to consciously
address the vertical (principal-agent), horizontal (majority-minority
principals) and firm-stakeholder agency problems that can be seen in
corporate entity forms irrespective of jurisdiction, while still being
sensitive to, and retaining, the particular features of DAOs and
crypto-economic systems that make these forms of organization and
coordination unique and valuable as emergent social and commercial
vehicles. States are encouraged to adopt or transpose the ML's
provisions into their domestic law. In a State that has transposed or
adopted the ML into their domestic legal system, a DAO that is
constituted according to the requirements of the transposed or adopted
legal rules will qualify and be recognized as a legal entity by that
State. This will result in the DAO being granted legal personality in
any State that has adopted or transposed the ML, which is essential to
guarantee the legal effect of the DAO's action. If the ML's provisions
are complied with, the DAO's Members will additionally enjoy limited
liability. To allow for DAOs to qualify as legal entities in the maximum
number of States, the ML provides a minimum level of rights, duties and
protections that are generally recognized in legislation on analogous
corporate entities in major jurisdictions. In addition, if a DAO
qualifies as a legal entity in a particular jurisdiction, the legal
effects of its actions and the protections offered to its Members,
Participants, Legal Representatives and Administrators may be more
easily recognized in other jurisdictions that have not adopted or
transposed the ML under private international law principles.

As many unregistered DAOs will fail to comply with existing corporate
rules by nature of their intrinsic operation, and will not be able to
implement all of the necessary legal requirements formally articulated
in existing corporate rules, the ML strives to achieve functional and
regulatory equivalence through specific provisions of the ML. Functional
equivalence allows the establishment of equivalence between an object
already within the realm of a legal rule and another object not yet
encompassed by it. For instance, the UNCITRAL Model Law for Electronic
Commerce establishes functional equivalence between a paper-based
document and an electronic document. As this Model Law demonstrates,
this approach is useful for simplifying the regulation of DAOs. For
example, instead of introducing new corporate rules specifically
applicable to 'tokenized' shares, shares that are recorded on a
blockchain-based system could be regarded as valid titles to a share,
transferable via a blockchain-based registry. Regulatory equivalence
relies on the same technique, but identifies the object or purpose of
any given regulation as goal. It allows for the establishment of
equivalence between the function of a legal rule and the function of a
technology. A pertinent example of regulatory equivalence is the
relationship between registration requirements for corporate entities
and the deployment of a DAO on a Permissionless Blockchain. The
deployment of a smart contract on a blockchain with relevant data about
a DAO is not functionally equivalent to registration into a corporate
registry, but the policy objectives of publicity and certainty are fully
achieved. Following a public announcement of the Public Address of the
DAO, the deployment is verifiable by anyone, as it is inscribed on a
Permissionless Blockchain.

In view of the above objectives, the ML consists of the following
Chapters:

Chapter 1 sets out the broad range of economic and social activities
that DAOs can engage in, the rights and obligations that DAOs can enjoy
as a separate legal person, and important definitions used in the ML.

Chapter 2 sets out the eleven technical and governance requirements that
a DAO needs to meet to benefit from legal personality, and for its
Members to receive limited liability protection.

Chapter 3 sets out the potential actions that may lead to Members
forfeiting limited liability protection, namely fraud and failure to
comply with binding arbitral awards or court orders. This is intended to
limit the grounds on which a Member may be jointly liable with a DAO,
while not precluding the possibility that a Member may be personally
liable (*e.g.*, under tort law principles). The chapter also clarifies
that minimum capital requirements are not mandatory for DAOs, as is
increasingly the case with traditional corporate entities, while still
acknowledging that some DAOs may wish to voluntarily introduce reserve
funds and insurance schemes to enhance public confidence in their
ability to meet their debts to third party creditors. The remainder of
the chapter is devoted to governance rights, providing considerable
leeway to DAOs to create multiple classes of participation and diverse
voting rights structures, as well as the possibility to protect
minorities and appoint proxies.

Chapter 4 builds on the question of how a DAO under the ML is to be
governed. It seeks to allow individual DAOs to have considerable
flexibility in how their internal organization and procedures take
place, without being bound by the same constraints that a number of
corporate entities are subject to (*e.g.*, in-person, physical
meetings). The ML enables management by consensus as well as the
appointment of Administrator(s). It recognizes that, irrespective of how
the DAO is managed, the DAO may need to have representation off-chain
for certain purposes and activities. This chapter therefore provides a
procedure for appointing a Legal Representative with narrowly-defined
powers that can interact with territorially bound national
jurisdictions. In the spirit of contractual freedom, DAOs are permitted
to appoint fiduciaries if they wish, but the ML makes clear that merely
holding a position with a particular title and having certain
potentially discretionary decision-making power (*e.g.*, core Developer,
Administrator, Member) should not be in itself sufficient to imply
fiduciary status.

The provisions of Chapters 1-4 are akin to most corporate law statutes
and address the aspects of DAOs that are similar to other business
organizations. Chapter 5, in contrast, recognizes that DAOs have
technical features that raise new questions that merit specific
treatment. This Chapter, therefore, includes specific articles that
concern the consequences of Contentious Forks, modifications, upgrades
and migrations on the legal personality of a DAO (as well as its claims
and assets) and the limited liability of its Members. Moreover, there
may be Failure Events that are specific to DAOs, which under this
chapter may lead to the liability of Persons who are grossly negligent
or acting in manifest bad faith in making a decision, but will not
attach to those not involved in the decision.

Chapter 6 is the final part of the ML and includes two important miscellaneous provisions that are necessary in creating a coherently complete legal framework for DAOs. First, it specifies when general business organization law should be applied to DAOs by a jurisdiction that adopts the ML. Only lacunae in the by-laws and the ML should be filled by domestic general business organization law, and if there is any ambiguity arising from this gap-filling function, it should be resolved in a manner that upholds the objectives and letter of the ML. Second, it establishes the recognition of DAOs as pass-through entities for tax purposes, so as to simplify the process of taxation for DAOs which are non-territorial and transnational by their nature, and instead make Members and Participants responsible for tax compliance. 
========================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================

**Model Law for Decentralized Autonomous Organizations (DAOs) with Explanatory Comments**
=========================================================================================

Preamble[^1]
------------

*Introduction*

Decentralized Autonomous Organizations (DAOs) can be classified into two
distinctive categories: registered DAOs, i.e. DAOs that are organized
according to the laws of a State and that are registered in a corporate
registry, and unregistered DAOs, i.e., DAOs that are created outside of
the legal frameworks defined by national laws and are not registered in
a corporate registry. The vast majority of existing DAOs are
unregistered DAOs and their legal status is currently uncertain: they
are *alegal*.[^2] The result is a great deal of legal uncertainty, which
can be detrimental to the development and utilization of this new model
of social and business organization. Since DAOs are inherently
transnational in nature, the drafters and contributors to the DAO Model
Law ("Model Law") believe that it would be desirable to adopt a uniform,
model set of rules that could be implemented internationally to provide
legal certainty for DAOs and their members and participants. The Model
Law is designed as a best practice guide for DAOs and States are
encouraged to adopt or transpose its provisions into their domestic law.
States should hew as closely as possible to the letter and objectives of
the Model Law to avoid regulatory fragmentation and provide a consistent
foundation for the legal status of DAOs on a transnational basis.

*Objective*

The objective of the Model Law is to bridge the gap between the multiple
existing and potential activities of unregistered DAOs---those that have
not been wrapped in a corporate form in any jurisdiction---and the
regulatory frameworks in the many jurisdictions within which
unregistered DAOs already operate. The Model Law provides legal rules
that can be effectively applied, while taking into account technical
constraints and opportunities of these novel forms of organization. It
is essential that the legal rules are flexible enough to accompany and
encourage the development of DAOs. The rules proposed in the Model Law
seek to strike a balance between the need for legal certainty and the
need for DAO developers, administrators, members and participants to
retain the freedom necessary to enable the technology to evolve.
Recognizing the importance of legal protections and a sound regulatory
framework, as well as the importance of experimental freedom in
technological development and innovation, the Model Law provides a
framework for the effective regulation of DAOs without being unduly
burdensome. It achieves this by, first, using a principle-based approach
to identify the policy objectives and principles underlying provisions
of corporate law in major jurisdictions. Second, the Model Law seeks to
implement these objectives and principles by limiting its scope to DAOs
that meet specific technical and governance standards and by providing
rules that recognize that these DAOs' technological features offer
satisfactory protections and meet purposes in a manner that is
equivalent to existing law.

*Scope*

The Model Law provides uniform rules of law that can serve as a model
for national legislators who wish to adopt substantive national law
rules on DAOs. In a State that has transposed or adopted the Model Law
into their domestic legal system, a DAO that is constituted according to
the requirements of the transposed or adopted legal rules will qualify
as a legal entity. This will result in the DAO being granted legal
existence and legal personality in any State that has adopted or
transposed the Model Law, which is essential to guarantee the legal
effect of its actions.

The Model Law contributes to an emerging international consensus on the
legal situation of DAOs. It is therefore desirable that the rules of the
Model Law be adopted by as many States as possible so that the legal
scope of DAOs corresponds to their transnational nature. To allow for
DAOs to qualify as legal entities in the maximum number of States, it
provides a minimum level of rights, duties and protections that is
generally recognized in legislation on corporate entities in major
jurisdictions. In addition, when a DAO qualifies as a legal entity in a
particular jurisdiction, its status in other jurisdictions that have not
adopted or transposed the Model Law may be more easily established under
private international law principles.[^3] The contributors to the Model
Law have sought to consciously address the vertical (principal-agent),
horizontal (majority-minority principals) and firm-stakeholder agency
problems that can be seen in corporate entity forms irrespective of
jurisdiction, while still being sensitive to, and retaining, the
particular features of DAOs and crypto-economic systems that make these
forms of organization and coordination unique and valuable as emergent
social and commercial vehicles. For example, many of the issues
concerning the protection of minority shareholders, creditors and other
stakeholders are addressed through the conferral of exit rights and
disclosures, on the principle of 'participant beware'.

*Format*

This document is drafted in the form of a Model Law containing
substantive and procedural rules that can be adopted by States in their
national law in order to draft their own legislation concerning DAOs. It
provides commentary on some of the articles in order to explain their
intended meaning and practical scope. Additionally, it may serve as a
foundational document for the development of best practices for
developers, administrators, members and participants of DAOs.

*Important Concepts*

***Functional equivalence*** allows the establishment of equivalence
between an object already within the realm of a legal rule and another
object not yet encompassed by it. Through functional equivalence, the
"means" by which a regulated process, procedure or activity will be
considered as compliant with the law can be broadened. For instance, the
UNCITRAL Model Law for Electronic Commerce[^4] establishes functional
equivalence between a paper-based document and an electronic document;
similarly, certain electronic signatures that comply with specific
requirements are held to be functionally equivalent to a handwritten
signature.[^5] It thus conceptualizes both legal rules and technologies
as means to an end, or instruments that can fulfill a particular
purpose. This includes, but is not limited to, protective purposes,
preventive purposes, and punitive purposes. For functional equivalence
to be established, one has to identify a policy objective or a purpose
and then demonstrate that this objective or purpose could be achieved
either by the enforcement of a legal rule or by relying on a particular
application of a technology. As this Model Law demonstrates, this
approach is useful for simplifying the regulation of DAOs. For example,
instead of introducing new corporate rules specifically applicable to
'tokenized' shares, shares that are recorded on a blockchain-based
system could be regarded as valid titles to a share, transferable via a
blockchain-based registry.

***Regulatory equivalence*** relies on the same technique, but
identifies the object or purpose of any given regulation as goal. It
allows for the establishment of equivalence between the function of a
legal rule and the function of a technology.[^6] Through regulatory
equivalence, the realm of processes and procedures for achieving a
policy objective of any given law can be broadened. The first step is
the identification of the policy objective of a regulation and then, in
a second step, the consideration of processes and procedures that can be
deemed to fulfill this purpose. In our conceptualization of regulatory
equivalence, there is then a third step in which we assess how this
objective, and the consequent processes and procedures, can be achieved
through the use of a particular technology. The goal is to achieve
traditional objectives of corporate law by relying on technological
means where possible. The advantage of this approach is that it allows
for the incorporation of new technologies into the existing legal
framework without necessitating large-scale legal reforms, preventing
the fragmentation of the regulatory field and the creation of ever more
specialized laws for the regulation of a particular technology.

A pertinent example of regulatory equivalence is the relationship
between registration requirements for corporate entities and the
deployment of a DAO on a blockchain. Registration requirements are
driven by the objective of publicity and reliability, which is
underwritten by the trust that people have in public authorities. The
deployment of a smart contract on a blockchain with relevant data about
a DAO is not functionally equivalent to registration into a corporate
registry, but the policy objectives of publicity and certainty are fully
achieved. Following a public announcement of the address of the DAO, the
deployment is verifiable by anyone, as it is inscribed on a public
blockchain. Thus, even if unregistered DAOs do not fully comply with
existing legal requirements, the features of the technology meet some of
these requirements through a different process or procedure.
Registration is one of many such examples considered in this Model Law.

Many unregistered DAOs will fail to comply with existing corporate rules
and will not be able to implement all of the necessary legal
requirements. The Model Law identifies the extent to which some DAO
features can be held to be functionally equivalent, and therefore
compliant with various legal requirements. We also identify the extent
to which their technical features, while not functionally equivalent,
achieve the same policy objectives. As a result, DAOs should benefit
from legal personhood and at least some of the various rights and
obligations of the existing frameworks of corporate law, even if they do
not use an entity form under the law.

The adoption of this Model Law by States, and thus the recognition of
features of functional and regulatory equivalence of DAOs, would
encourage DAO developers, administrators and members to implement these
features into their DAOs so as to benefit from legal personality.[^7]
Bringing DAOs into a regulatory framework would, in turn, increase legal
certainty from the perspective of members, participants, administrators
and developers of DAOs, as well as from the perspective of regulators
and third parties, including the general public. In addition, it leaves
room for DAO developers, administrators, members and innovators to
experiment and propose sound technological solutions that could be later
recognized by regulators as being either functionally or regulatorily
equivalent to existing corporate law rules and formalities.

*Chapter 1*
-----------

General Provisions
------------------

### Article 1. NATURE---

(1) The DAO is a legal entity that can be used for commercial,
    > mutualistic, social, environmental or political purposes, the
    > nature of which will be specified in its By-Laws.

*Commentary*

The aim of the Model Law is to allow a DAO that has not registered as a
for-profit corporate entity or a non-profit entity to benefit from
equivalent standing as a domestic limited liability company or limited
liability cooperative. Most jurisdictions no longer require limited
liability companies to have an object/purpose clause. Instead, many
jurisdictions allow them to engage in any legal activity. The *ultra
vires* doctrine has also fallen out of favor in several advanced
corporate law jurisdictions.[^8] A common exception to this trend is
charitable organisations, which is regularly explained by their special
tax status. The Model Law does not aim to secure any special tax status
for DAOs and accordingly has not taken into account the prevailing
requirement for charitable organisations to have an object/purpose
clause. As such, this Article does not preclude DAOs from engaging in
social, environmental or philanthropic activities alongside its economic
activities. Specifically, the Model Law acknowledges that a DAO may not
only be a for-profit entity but may be used for multiple non-commercial
purposes. DAOs have already been used for non-commercial purposes.[^9]

### Article 2. LEGAL PERSONALITY---

(1) A DAO within the scope of this Model Law will be deemed a legal
    > entity separate and distinct from its Members. A DAO will, by its
    > own name, be capable of:

    a.  suing and being sued;

    b.  acquiring, owning, holding and developing or disposing of
        > property, both movable and immovable; and

    c.  doing and suffering such acts and things as bodies corporate may
        > lawfully do and suffer.

(2) A DAO within the scope of this Model Law must meet its liabilities
    > through its On-Chain and Off-Chain Assets.

(3) The validity of an action by a DAO within the scope of this Model
    > Law may not be challenged on the ground that the DAO lacks power
    > to act.

*Commentary*

The core public policy goal of legal personality is entity shielding.
Attaining legal personality allows an entity to operate as a single
contracting party distinct from those owning or managing the firm, with
a single pool of assets distinct from the other assets of those owning
and managing the firm.[^10] The entity's pool of assets may not be
attached by the personal creditors of those owning or managing the firm,
but only by the creditors of the entity itself. The latter are usually
granted priority over the owners of the firm to the entity's assets. To
protect the entity from forced liquidation, entity shielding usually
also entails rules that prevent the owners of the entity from
withdrawing their share of assets at will.[^11] Through this Article,
the same rationale is extended to DAOs, so as to separate the assets and
liabilities of Members and Participants from that of the DAO.

The Model Law stipulates that jurisdictions should recognize a DAO to
have legal personality so long as they are able to meet the same policy
goals underlying corporate law, as reflected in this Model Law. In order
for this principle to stand, all jurisdictions should adopt the same
criteria for legal personality as prescribed in the Model Law, otherwise
the legal scope of a particular DAO could be fragmented and
unpredictable.

### 

### Article 3. DEFINITIONS---

(1) "**Accreditation Authority**" means any public or private authority
    that a jurisdiction which adopts or transposes the Model Law
    recognizes as legitimate to ensure compliance with one or more
    Articles of the Model Law.

(2) **"Administrator"** means a Person, irrespective of title, that is
    appointed in a manner specified in the By-Laws to take discretionary
    decisions, either individually or collectively with other
    Administrators, with regard to specific, predefined operations of
    the DAO.

(3) **"Airdrop"** means a free distribution of Tokens initiated by a DAO
    to a Public Address, but does not include distributions of Tokens
    for which a person must execute a function to redeem the distributed
    Tokens.

(4) "**Asset**" includes both On-Chain assets and Off-Chain assets.

(5) "**By-Laws**" means the rules and regulations that govern the
    procedures followed by a DAO and the interaction of its Members and
    Participants, which must be set out in plain language, in text or
    sound, visual or audiovisual recording.

(6) "**Contentious Fork"** means a Hard Fork that results in two
    divergent and potentially competing blockchains.

(7) **"Decentralized Autonomous Organization" (DAO)** refers to *smart
    contracts* (*i.e.* blockchain-based software) deployed on a public
    Permissionless Blockchain,[^12] which implements specific
    decision-making or governance rules enabling a multiplicity of
    actors to coordinate themselves in a decentralized fashion. These
    governance rules must be *technically*, although not necessarily
    *operationally*, decentralized.

(8) "**Developer**" means a person involved in the development or
    maintenance of the DAO, whether through the contribution of software
    code, design, business, legal or ancillary support.

(9) "**Dispute Resolution Mechanism**" means an On-Chain alternative
    dispute resolution system, such as arbitration, expert
    determination, or an On-Chain alternative court system, which
    enables anyone to resolve their disputes, controversies or claims
    with, arising out of, or in connection with, a DAO. Any such award,
    decision or judgment will be accorded the same status and treatment
    as an international arbitral award.

(10) **"Externally Owned Account"** means a Public Address controlled by
     a private key and that has no associated code.

(11) **"Failure Event"** means a DAO encountering a technical bug or
     exploit which renders the DAO unoperational or fundamentally
     changes the expected operation of the DAO.

(12) "**GUI**" means a graphical user interface, publicly accessible by
     all DAO Members and Participants, whether hosted via centralized or
     decentralized means, through which users interact with computer
     software via visual indicator representations. This can include,
     but is not limited to, a web interface or standalone application.

(13) "**Hard** **Fork**" means a blockchain software upgrade that is not
     compatible with previous versions of the blockchain software, and
     therefore requires all users to upgrade.

(14) "**Jurisdiction**" means a territory that is under a defined legal
     authority.

(15) **"Legal Representative"** means a Person who is appointed in a
     manner specified in the By-Laws to perform procedural functions
     Off-Chain.

(16) "**Majority Chain**" means the version of the chain accepted by
     more than 50% of the blockchain's validators following a Hard Fork.

(17) **"Meeting"** means a synchronous or asynchronous event for the
     purpose of discussing and acting upon DAO-related matters by
     Members or Participants.

(18) **"Member"** means any person or DAO who has governance rights in a
     DAO.

(19) **\"Minority Chain\"** means the version of the chain that is not
     the Majority Chain following a Hard Fork.

(20) "**Model** **Law**" means this DAO Model Law.

(21) **"Off-Chain"** means any action or transaction that is not
     On-Chain.

(22) "**On-Chain"** means any action or transaction that is recorded and
     verified on a blockchain.

(23) "**On-Chain Contribution**" refers to any Token segregated and
     locked in one of the DAO's Smart Contracts for the purpose of
     Member buy-in to the DAO and the provision of withdrawable capital.

(24) "**Open-Source Format**" means the Open Source Initiative's
     definition of open source.[^13]

(25) "**Participants**" means any person interacting with or holding
     native tokens in a DAO other than Members.

(26) "**Permissionless Blockchain**" means a public distributed ledger,
     allowing any entity to transact and produce blocks in accordance
     with the blockchain protocol, whereby the validity of the block is
     not determined by the identity of the producer.

(27) "**Person**" means an individual, a company or any other body of
     persons.

(28) "**Proposal**" means a suggestion for actions to be taken by the
     DAO, to be decided on in accordance with the By-Laws of the DAO.

(29) **"Public Address"** means a unique, durable identifier that
     person(s) can transact with on a Permissionless Blockchain.

(30) "**Public Forum**" means a freely accessible online environment
     that is commonly used for the exercise of speech and public debate.

(31) "**Public Signaling**" means a declaration authorised by way of
     Proposal by the DAO in a Public Forum.

(32) "**Quality Assurance**" means that the code of the DAO has
     undergone security review according to industry standards,
     namely: (1) the completion of professional software security audit
     with an audit report available to the public with no significant
     security risks remaining, as well as the completion of a public bug
     bounty; (2) a formal verification by means of a mathematical
     proof-based methodology in which the Smart Contract's bytecode is
     directly checked as correct-by-construction to show the full
     functional correctness of security-critical properties of the Smart
     Contract; or (3) any other process recognized as meeting the same
     security standards.

(33) **"Smart Contract**" is code deployed in a blockchain environment.
     It is made of a set of *predefined* and *deterministic*
     instructions executed in a distributed manner by the nodes of the
     underlying blockchain network, if and when the underlying
     conditions are met. Execution of a Smart Contract will produce a
     change in the blockchain state.

(34) "**Token**" means a record on a Permissionless Blockchain,
     typically representing an Asset, participation right, or other
     entitlement.

(35) "**Transaction**" means a new entry in a Permissionless Blockchain,
     often but not exclusively, recording a change in ownership of an
     Asset or participation in a DAO.

*Commentary*

With respect to Administrator (Article 3(2)), common terms used for
Administrators may include 'Directors', 'Trustees' or 'Committee
Members,' depending on the preference of the DAO in question.

With respect to Decentralized Autonomous Organizations (Article 3(7)),
the definition distinguishes between Smart Contracts that qualify as
DAOs for the purpose of this Model Law and those that do not qualify as
DAOs, based on the technical design and implementation of their
governance structure. The governance of a DAO is always
*technically*---although not necessarily
*operationally*---decentralized. From a purely technical perspective,
the DAO must provide at least the potential of decentralized governance.
For example, a Smart Contract that is controlled by an Externally Owned
Account will not qualify as a DAO within the scope of this Model Law,
because one single entity can unilaterally affect the operation of said
Smart Contract. This holds true even if the actions of said single
entity are determined by a distributed governance system operating
outside of the blockchain. Conversely, a Smart Contract whose governance
is based on a Token-based system will most likely qualify as a DAO, even
if a single entity could theoretically control a majority of these
tokens.

With respect to Smart Contract (Article 3(33)), the reference to
"predefined conditions\" means that all terms are explicitly fixed and
immutable, whereas \"deterministic conditions" means that for any valid
input provided, the same result is returned regardless of when the
function is executed.

With respect to Person (Article 3(27)), we follow the approach of the
OECD Model Tax Convention (2017), which defines a person as "an
individual, a company and any other body of persons".[^14] The OECD
Report on the Application of the OECD Model Tax Convention (1999),
clarifies that this term also covers foundations and partnerships.[^15]

*Chapter 2*
-----------

Formation and Proof of Existence
--------------------------------

### Article 4. FORMATION REQUIREMENTS---

(1) In order for a DAO to benefit from legal personality, it must
    > fulfill the following requirements:

    a.  The DAO must be deployed on a Permissionless Blockchain;

    b.  The DAO must provide a unique Public Address through which
        > anyone can review the DAOs' activities and monitor its
        > operations;

    c.  The whole software code of the DAO must be in Open-Source Format
        > in a Public Forum to allow anyone to review it;

    d.  The software code of the DAO must have undergone Quality
        > Assurance;

    e.  There must be at least one GUI that will allow a layperson to
        > read the value of the key variables of the DAO's smart
        > contracts and monitor all transactions originating from, or
        > addressed to, any of the DAO's Smart Contracts. The GUI will
        > also specify whether Members are able to redeem their Tokens
        > without restrictions and if not, the GUI will clearly mention
        > the restrictions that are in place;

    f.  The DAO must have By-Laws that are comprehensible to a
        > layperson. The By-Laws must be publicly accessible via a GUI
        > or a Public Forum. Sensitive information may be redacted from
        > the By-Laws before their publication, if those redactions are
        > necessary to protect the privacy of individual Members or
        > Participants in the DAO;

    g.  The governance system of the DAO must be technically
        > decentralized, although not necessarily operationally
        > decentralized, as per Article 3(7).

    h.  Independent of the chosen governance system, there must always
        > be at least one Member of the DAO at any given time;

    i.  There must be a publicly specified mechanism that allows a
        > layperson to contact the DAO. All Members and Administrators
        > of the DAO must be able to access the contents of this
        > communication mechanism;

    j.  The DAO must refer to or provide a Dispute Resolution Mechanism
        > that the DAO, Members and Participants will be bound by;

    k.  The DAO must refer to or provide a Dispute Resolution Mechanism
        > to resolve any disputes with third parties that, by their
        > nature, are capable of being settled by alternative dispute
        > resolution.

(2) The DAO will, upon meeting the formation requirements in Article
    > 4(1), have limited liability by default, subject to the provisions
    > of Article 5.

(3) Concurrent fulfillment of the requirements in Article 4(1), and an
    > announcement by the DAO that it has fulfilled those requirements
    > is deemed conclusive evidence of the DAO's recognition under this
    > Model Law and does not require certification from, or registration
    > by, an Accreditation Authority.

(4) A jurisdiction adopting the Model Law may authorize an Accreditation
    > Authority to monitor whether a DAO continues to meet the
    > requirements for legal personality under the Model Law.

(5) A DAO may request confirmation from an Accreditation Authority, if
    > such an authority exists, to determine whether the DAO complies
    > with the requirements for legal personality under the Model Law.

*Commentary*

As the objective of the Model Law is to bridge the technical and legal
gap between the multiple existing and potential activities of DAOs and
traditional regulatory frameworks that have yet to adapt to the new
social organizations enabled by permissionless participation, the Model
Law applies only to DAOs operating on Permissionless Blockchains.
Permissionless Blockchains enable a multiplicity of participants to
coordinate on a decentralized basis, in which control of the DAO is
established among various actors via a Token-based system, and such
permissionless participation is the foundational basis of DAOs. These
emergent forms of social and economic coordination require updates to
traditional corporate legal frameworks to apply public policy mechanisms
in a manner that takes technical realities into account. New political
and legal economies that can be gained from the technical
functionalities afforded by DAOs require this kind of cautious and
effective adaptation of corporate law frameworks to DAOs.

Permissionless Blockchains can be distinguished from permissioned
blockchains, in which blockchain software is deployed by a narrow subset
of pre-defined actors by a series of predefined accounts and can
therefore be considered centrally controlled and coordinated.
Permissioned blockchains are more akin to a traditional private
corporation or foundation in terms of having centralized governance,,
and, as such, applications on permissioned blockchains do not require
new legal frameworks to operate.

DAOs deployed on Permissionless Blockchains raise the possibility of
interacting with persons and entities one does not know. In the late
1770s, in writing about penal law, Bentham posed the question: "Who are
you, with whom I have to deal?"[^16] This question strikes at the heart
of the problem of being able to accurately and truthfully identify a
stranger. At the time, the lack of standardization of proper names
provided numerous opportunities to deceive counterparties. As Fichte
noted soon after, this lack of identifiability compromised
policing.[^17] While both had the identifiability of natural persons in
mind,[^18] the need to know *who* one is dealing with is also essential
for legal persons.

In a majority of jurisdictions, this identifiability requirement is met
by giving a company a unique name that distinguishes it from other
companies, a unique identification number and a registered office
address, which can be used to find the company in a business register. A
search of such a business register usually provides the name of at least
one of the directors of said company. Through the formation requirements
mentioned in this Article 4, we strive for regulatory equivalence by
meeting this identifiability objective, while also acknowledging the
unique properties of DAOs and the implicit goal of DAOs to conduct
transactions digitally and maintain the pseudonymity of Administrators,
Members and Participants.

An example of this is Article 4(1)(b), which requires the specification
of a Public Address. Any DAO has---by technical requirement---at least
one unique Public Address. The Public Address usually reveals the
blockchain the DAO is based on, although this is not so in the case of a
Hard Fork. The public policy goal requiring a company to have a name to
distinguish one company from another is met by the identification of a
Public Address of a DAO, which may be considered its default name in the
absence of a unique name communicated by Public Signaling. This Public
Address is communicated publicly as part of the requirement in Article
4(1)(c) to have the whole software code of the DAO published in Open
Source Format.

As mentioned above, in most jurisdictions, a legal person must have a
physical, registered address. While there are varied policy goals behind
this requirement, we consider (1) the need of stakeholders and third
parties (*e.g.*, a national legal system) to communicate with a legal
entity; and (2) the need to determine its *lex societatis* (*i.e.*, the
national law that governs the entity), to be the two most important
reasons for having a physical, registered address. In general, a
physical, registered address---even if limited to a mailbox---is
important due to the need for Persons or the legal system to serve legal
documents. While service of documents by e-mail or fax is already
possible in several jurisdictions for civil proceedings (*e.g.*, England
& Wales),[^19] it is not universally the case (*e.g.*, in the
Netherlands).[^20]

A jurisdiction that adopts the Model Law should also permit the
electronic service of legal documents by any communication mechanism
publicly specified by a DAO (Article 4(1)(i)), such as a secure website
which the authorities of a jurisdiction can post notice to and from
which it can receive cryptographically signed acknowledgement. Courts in
both India and the United Kingdom have recently indicated support for
novel electronic means of serving legal documents, so long as the
intended recipient can be correctly identified and there is an
indication that they have been served (*e.g.*, a "blue double tick" on
Whatsapp).[^21] In the case of DAO Administrators or Members,
identification would usually be enabled by their public address on the
blockchain, not their name. For the sake of transparency and to avoid
the maintainer of the communication mechanism being held inadvertently
and individually responsible for the actions of a DAO, this publicly
specified communication mechanism should be accessible by any Member of
the DAO. At the same time, this communication mechanism should not
permit a Member or Administrator to unilaterally delete or amend
communications.

The second policy goal of determining the laws and procedures that
govern a DAO is met by specifying a Dispute Resolution Mechanism for
disputes arising among Members (Article 4(1)(j)) and for disputes with
third parties that can be subject to alternative dispute resolution
mechanisms (Article 4(1)(k)). In other words, we consider that
compliance by the DAO's software code with Article 4 of the Model Law
satisfies the policy goals behind the traditional requirement of having
a seat. Instead of requiring a DAO to submit to and physically establish
a presence in every jurisdiction in which they operate, the Dispute
Resolution Mechanism gives Members and other stakeholders means of
redress against the DAO, should the need arise. Dispute Resolution
Mechanisms with non-member third parties do not have to meet minimum
standards of due process for the time being, as no on-chain ADR process
currently meets such standards and is unlikely to do so in the
foreseeable future. However, third parties who enter into agreements
with DAOs should be informed upfront about the Dispute Resolution
Mechanism the DAO has opted into and that it may not meet the standards
of due process that they might expect in an Off-Chain dispute resolution
process, such as court litigation. This gives the third party prior
notice and option to avoid transactions with the DAO and, if they choose
to enter into such transactions, they do so on the basis of 'participant
beware'. However, at a minimum, any final decision or settlement
resulting from the Dispute Resolution Mechanism must be made public,
after anonymizing the names and other personally identifiable
information of the disputing parties, where relevant. Jurisdictions
should recognise any final decision reached by the Dispute Resolution
Mechanism. For matters that cannot be resolved by an ADR or binding
arbitration procedure, a Legal Representative will be appointed
(Articles 3(15), 14) to represent the interests of a DAO as a legal
entity.

In many jurisdictions, the promoters assisting in the incorporation of a
limited liability company must set authorized, subscribed and paid-in
capital, along with the number of shares to be issued, the different
classes of shares, their par value, and the terms and conditions on
which the payment for their subscription will be made. We consider the
overarching policy goal of this requirement to be ensuring that an
entity has sufficient capital to meet its debts to creditors and to
provide a structure for capital investments and tradability of shares.
In the case of DAOs, the policy goal is automatically met by its
technical reality: the funding situation, governance and any Token
issuance may be read by anyone from the Permissionless Blockchain
(Article 4(1)(a)). However, as only a minority of experts are able to
reliably and accurately read the information from a blockchain directly,
only DAOs that have a minimum of one publicly available GUI (Article
4(1)(e)) and have completed software Quality Assurance (Article 4(1)(d))
will be able to benefit from protection under the Model Law.

Similarly, a limited liability company is typically required to have a
statute or constitution, often known as the Articles of Association or
By-Laws, sometimes supplemented by or encompassed in an Operating
Agreement or Membership Agreement, which include rules for the
management of the affairs of the company, including its administrators
and its representatives in relation to third parties, along with the
names and powers of any such persons or entity(ies). A DAO's By-Laws are
by default laid down in its software code. However, as only a minority
of experts are able to reliably read the DAO's code, only DAOs providing
for a one-to-one version of the rules in plain language on a GUI
(Article 4(1)(f)) and a governance system with at least one Member
(Article 4(1)(h)) will be able to benefit from protection under the
Model Law.

*Chapter 3*
-----------

Limited Liability, Asset Subscription and Members' Rights
---------------------------------------------------------

### Article 5. LIMITED LIABILITY―

(1) Except as set forth in Articles 5(3) and Article 5(4), Members will
    > only be responsible for providing the On-Chain Contributions that
    > they have committed to the DAO, as required by the By-Laws. If the
    > DAO exhausts its Assets, the Members will not be liable for excess
    > liability.

(2) Except as set forth in Articles 5(3) and Article 5(4) of this Model
    > Law, Members will not be held liable for any obligations incurred
    > by the DAO, including, but not limited to, labor and tax
    > obligations.

(3) If the DAO refuses to comply with an enforceable judgment, order or
    > award entered against it, the Members who voted against compliance
    > will be liable for any monetary payments ordered in the judgment,
    > order or award in proportion to their share of governance rights
    > in the DAO.

(4) Articles 5(1) to 5(4) will not affect the personal liability of a
    > Member in tort for their own wrongful act or omission, but a
    > Member will not be personally liable for the wrongful act or
    > omission of any other Member of the DAO.

*Commentary*

Limited liability of shareholders, while being a defining and important
feature of the modern corporation, has not always been an attribute of
corporations. According to Harris, limited liability evolved since the
1600s over three distinct periods from a system of no limited liability
(circa. 1600-1800) to a multiplicity of hybrid liability regimes (circa.
1800-1930) to 'strong' owner shielding in the twentieth century.[^22] It
was only in this third period that creditors were granted legal priority
over equity holders in claiming corporate assets.

There are several legal and economic grounds for why limited liability
became a uniform attribute of the corporation. With the growth of large,
complex corporations in the United States with dispersed shareholding
structures, it became apparent that it was untenable for individual
shareholders to have 'moral culpability'[^23] for the actions of
corporations, as they lacked the power and control mechanisms to
discipline errant management. At the same time, limited liability allows
risk-averse persons to take business risks that they may have otherwise
avoided, thereby enhancing the chances of gaining a lucrative return, as
the risks of a poor investment are shifted onto creditors and other
third parties.[^24] Ordinarily, shareholders that enjoy limited
liability only stand to lose what they have invested in the event of
insolvency. As a consequence, shareholders are also able to invest in
multiple corporations without having to closely monitor any of
them.[^25] This is a clear example of how corporate legal requirements
evolved to address the inherent trade-offs underlying public policy
goals to enhance or enable political and social economies afforded by
implementation of such rules. Voluntary creditors are able to, however,
protect themselves from the moral hazard of shareholders by imposing
higher interest rates on any loans extended to the corporation and by
negotiating limitations on actions that a corporation can take without
creditor approval. Involuntary creditors, such as tort victims, may seek
to pierce the corporate veil so as to satisfy the claims they may have
against individual shareholders or parent companies, but globally such
efforts at veil piercing are generally unsuccessful outside of cases of
fraud.

As a corollary to this, there are legal and economic grounds for why
unlimited liability is less favored by contemporary corporate entities,
although certain corporate entities have unlimited liability as a
mandatory rule (*e.g.*, in general partnerships) or as a default rule
(*e.g.*, cooperative societies in some jurisdictions). While unlimited
liability would offer voluntary and involuntary creditors some solace
that shareholders would be jointly and severally liable for any claims
that remain unsatisfied by the corporate entity, this would be poorly
suited to the interests of members of an entity that has potentially
thousands-if not millions-of anonymous members and aspires towards
participatory governance, such as a DAO. It is the combination of these
two attributes, among other things, that makes the governance of a DAO
distinct from that of an archetypical Berle-Means corporation.

It could be argued that, as with other business organizations with
unlimited liability, the ability of Members to participate in governance
would be sufficient to ameliorate vertical (principal-agent) and
horizontal agency problems (majority-minority principals). However, the
fact that many of the other Members are unknown would, in principle,
heighten the apprehension of Members that Tokens could be sold to poorer
third parties and thereby increase their collective risk.[^26] In other
words, in the absence of limited liability, DAOs would have to adopt a
rule similar to general partnerships, that to sell their
membership-conferring Tokens on a secondary market would require
unanimous consent of all Members[^27]―a requirement that would be
cumbersome and costly for DAOs, as it would decrease the liquidity of
their tokens. For voluntary and involuntary creditors,[^28] joint and
several liability may also lose its appeal when confronted with the
reality that they would potentially have to pursue individual claims
against several, dispersed Members. It is arguable that it is even
unfair that creditors be able to arbitrarily pursue actions against
individual Members, based on the accessibility of the Members'
jurisdiction or wealth. At the same time, it creates social costs as it
is society that has to bear the costs related to the public enforcement
of these liability claims.

The above summarizes some of the main advantages of an entity having
limited liability and the central disadvantages of having unlimited
liability, so as to explain why the Members of a DAO should be extended
limited liability. In addition to the aforementioned legal and economic
benefits of limited liability, the absence of such protection for
Members would discourage participation in a growing market and stymie
the development of innovative financial and non-financial products.
While limited liability can be privately ordered―for example, by having
representatives of the entity negotiate contractual clauses where
creditors agree to waive any claim on Members' assets―this is an
expensive exercise prone to moral hazard.[^29] Instead, we seek limited
liability to be *granted* to DAOs compliant with other requirements
articulated in the Model Law, as it has been in the past with a
multitude of other corporate entities[^30] and as it has recently come
into force in the State of Wyoming.[^31]

Understandably, there may be concerns regarding the abuse of limited
liability. This may be addressed by DAOs by introducing a requirement
for Members to make a financial contribution to a reserve fund or
towards the premiums of an appropriate insurance policy for the benefit
of limited liability. Such a bond in exchange for limited liability has
been advocated by Robert Rhee and Abraham Singer.[^32] Some DAOs may
decide to sequester some of their On-Chain Assets in a specially
designed Smart Contract, which will pay out in case of liability.
Insurance customised to the needs of a DAO may be able to cover a larger
share of potential future liabilities, however, the novelty and
riskiness inherent in this sector make such coverage prohibitively
expensive. Nonetheless, we have included this voluntary option with the
view that insurance providers will gradually emerge to respond to the
needs of this space, as can be seen with the example of Nexus
Mutual.[^33] In addition, the veil piercing option in Article 5(3)
further mitigates risks of abuse of Members' limited liability, while
Article 5(3) ensures Members cannot simply refuse to pay a judgment
against the DAO. Note that Articles 5(1) and (3) does not make Members
liable for excess liability the DAO is unable to pay from its Assets,
but only for an outright refusal by the DAO to respond to judgment
against it.

###  

### Article 6. ASSET SUBSCRIPTION AND PAYMENT―

(1) No minimum capital requirements will apply to a DAO recognised by
    > the Model Law. If the DAO wishes to maintain a minimum amount of
    > capital, the By-Laws of the DAO will specify the rules for
    > subscription and payment.

(2) The By-Laws must specify the rules for exiting the DAO that address
    > the consequences of voluntary and involuntary Member and
    > Participant exit on subscriptions and payments they have made.

(3) No Member will be able to compel the dissolution of the DAO for
    > failure to return their On-Chain Contribution.

*Commentary*

The subscription of minimum capital, with a large amount paid up front
before the commencement of business, has typically been a mechanism to
prevent the abuse of the privilege of limited liability. The policy
objectives of having a minimum capital requirement include protecting
creditors, signaling the availability of certain assets to meet the
claims of creditors (particularly involuntary ones who cannot bargain
for better protections), preventing the frivolous formation of limited
liability companies, demonstrating that a new business is credit-worthy
and nudging directors to recapitalize an undercapitalized business.[^34]
However, as is current practice with private limited liability companies
in several jurisdictions,[^35] we do not see minimum capital
subscription as being necessary for DAOs, due to its inadequacy in
serving its main intended purpose: protecting creditors from members and
fiduciaries siphoning assets.[^36] In the European Union, the *Centros*
judgment has made clear that companies are free to circumvent minimum
capital rules by registering in a foreign jurisdiction which provides
lower minimum capital requirements, given that there are other
mechanisms to protect the interests of creditors.[^37] The paying-up of
a portion of minimum capital prior to the formation and operation of a
business does not prevent the business from returning the cash of
promoters as a salary, in exchange for goodwill or as a loan soon after
it becomes operational.[^38] Nor are the sums committed to these
businesses typically sufficient to meet the claims of unsecured,
involuntary creditors, such as employees. Voluntary creditors do not
look towards minimum capital to determine the credit-worthiness of a
business but instead concentrate on other metrics such as net worth or
cash flow, as well as the business's ability to furnish security. Given
existing market-based challenges and formation requirements imposed by
this Model Law, we do not see a justification for creating an additional
barrier to entry to small, under-resourced DAOs in the form of a minimum
capital requirement, particularly where such a requirement is rapidly
falling out of favor for the reasons discussed above.

Instead, as the inherent technical features of a Permissionless
Blockchain and this Model Law require a DAO's software code, On-Chain
Assets and transaction records to be publicly available (Article
4(1)(e)), the financial position of a DAO and the risks inherent in it
are made transparent to any creditors. As such, the signaling functions
of minimum capital requirements are achieved through technological
means. Furthermore, DAOs have diverse mechanisms for entry and exit
designed according to the needs of their Members, such as withdrawal of
Tokens (akin to the withdrawal of shares in cooperatives in the UK) or
the transfer of TTokens to third parties (akin to the transfer of shares
in limited liability companies). We believe the law should allow for
this flexibility to protect the interests of Members with minority Token
holdings.

We anticipate that one of the critiques of not having a minimum capital
and granting limited liability to DAOs will be that it will allow an
insolvent or near-insolvent DAO seeking to exploit its
undercapitalization and the limited liability of its Members to engage
in risky ventures that could, among other things, lead to tort
liability. Due to its poor financial position, such a DAO may not be
able to meet tort claims, while shielding Members from liability.
However, multinational corporations engage in such risk transfer
practices on a regular basis. The financial position of a DAO will be
transparent to all stakeholders due to the existence of a GUI that can
be used to examine its Assets (Article 4(1)(e)). To assuage concerns
regarding economic credibility and creditworthiness, a DAO that seeks
limited liability protection for its Members may consider maintaining
relevant insurance coverage or reserve funds in escrow to satisfy such
claims.

### 

### Article 7. CLASSES OF PERSONS PARTICIPATING IN THE DAO―

(1) A DAO may have multiple classes of participation rights defined in,
    > and granted in accordance with, its By-Laws.

(2) Where the DAO has Tokens providing governance powers to the Token
    > holder, the Token holder will be considered a Member of the DAO:

    a.  From the time the ownership of the Tokens is established to be
        > in the possession of an address, or

    b.  From the time when ownership is first acknowledged by the Token
        > holder through an On-Chain interaction with the DAO, through
        > staking the Tokens, voting with the Tokens Off-chain whereby
        > results are implemented On-Chain, submitting a Proposal or
        > transferring the Tokens to another address, in the event that
        > no action has been taken by a Token holder to acquire a Token,
        > such as in an Airdrop.

(3) This Article does not apply in the event of a Contentious Fork.

(4) This Article does not apply to Airdrops.

*Commentary*

Participation rights in DAOs may take the form of tokenized governance
powers, which may include the ability to propose, vote, and veto
Proposals, as well as confer financial rights, which may include revenue
and profit-sharing, bonding redemption rights, and service access
rights, among others. Such participation rights and responsibilities,
whether in the form of governance or financial powers, may be purchased,
earned programmatically, granted through proposals, or distributed in
any way defined in the DAO's By-Laws. The Model Law requires a DAO's
software code, On-Chain Assets and transaction record to be publicly
available and transparent to Members and Participants, so it does not
impose a restriction on distributions, as with traditional non-profit
companies or foundations. These 'non-distribution constraints' exist in
such organizations to prevent fiduciaries and key employees siphoning
valuable assets from the organization for personal gain, and to build
trust in the organization's capacity to achieve their social,
environmental or charitable purpose. The signaling function provided by
the technological guarantees of a DAO, as well as the diverse mechanisms
designed by Members to enter and exit a DAO, provide sufficient
safeguards to dispense with the need for specific restrictions on
distributions within a DAO.

In the traditional corporate form, governance and financial rights
usually coincide, but this is not necessarily the case for DAOs. A DAO
can delineate various governance and financial rights via its
Token-based system and distinguish amongst its participants those
Token-holders to whom governance powers have also been granted. This
Model Law contemplates that only those persons holding governance rights
should be considered Members of the DAO who determine the actions of the
DAO, and thus hold a higher level of responsibility. An example of an
important stakeholder in the DAO ecosystem who would not be classified
as Members are persons who hold Tokens on centralized exchanges. In such
situations, the user usually only has a claim on the centralized
exchange, but doesn't have actual ownership of the Tokens, which is a
prerequisite for membership. The lack of actual ownership of Tokens by
users was well demonstrated in a dispute in 2020 over the Steemit
platform.[^39] In March 2020, centralized exchanges, including Binance,
Poloniex and Huobi, used user deposits of STEEM, the native Token of the
Steemit blockchain, to help oust all of Steemit's nodes known as
"witnesses" that secure the Steemit blockchain in favour of one single
witness (node) controlled by Tron's founder Justin Sun. The move was
heavily criticized within the blockchain ecosystem, which has arguably
resulted in more hesitant usage of user deposits by centralized
exchanges. However, the matter highlights the discrepancy between legal
ownership, possession and lack of actual control by users over Token
deposits in centralized exchanges, which, therefore, should not qualify
as conferring membership rights.

This Article does not apply to Contentious Forks (Article 16 and
commentary). Blockchains can undergo hard forks, as defined in Articles
3(13) and 16. As such, multiple blockchain forks can coexist and which
fork to use is a consensus-driven process that must be achieved without
a definitive source of authority determining the result. Because these
replications can occur without affirmative action on the part of
Participants, this Model Law does not contemplate that governance
responsibilities should be automatically conferred to Members of a DAO
involuntarily subject to a Hard Fork. As described in Chapter 5, there
are several factors to be considered in the determination of the
majority fork. Ultimately, individual participants and market
aggregations decide which fork emerges as the authoritative counterparty
in transactions. In this Model Law, Article 7(2)(b) requires a Token
holder to make an affirmative action or acknowledgement to be considered
a Member participating in a DAO, and therefore the involuntary doubling
of Tokens and associated governance and financial participation rights
that occurs during blockchain forks are exempted from this Article.[^40]

Similarly, this Model Law exempts Airdrops (Article 3(3)) from Article
7. Airdrops occur when a DAO distributes tokens to Public Address
without knowledge or consent from the owner of the Public Address. Due
to the nature of blockchains, a Public Address cannot block incoming
transactions. As such, Airdrop distributions confer Tokens and
associated participation rights on Persons involuntarily, and are
therefore exempt from Article 7. This Model Law requires that Token
holders voluntarily and affirmatively engage in an On-Chain interaction
with a DAO (Article 7(2)(b)) to be considered a Member of a DAO.
Recently, many governance token distributions have been organised as
so-called "merkle airdrops" (or merkledrops), which require the user
whose Public Address received the merkledrop to actively redeem the
Tokens and pay any associated transaction fees. The definition of
Airdrops (see Article 3(3)) used in this Model Law does not encompass
merkledrops, for which users must affirmatively and voluntarily accept
the merkledrop and the associated participation and governance rights.

### 

### Article 8. VOTING RIGHTS―

### The voting rights of Members will be distributed in the following manner:

(1) The By-Laws must set out the distribution of voting rights of the
    > classes of Members in a DAO. The method by which these voting
    > rights are computed and distributed must be accurately set out in
    > the By-Laws.

*Commentary*

Unlike modern corporations, DAOs do not need default voting rights
because the distribution of voting rights must be proactively delineated
when creating a DAO. Thus, there is there no need for a default rule for
voting in the context of DAOs.

### 

### Article 9. PROXIES―

### With respect to proxies: 

(1) The Members or Participants may represent themselves or be
    represented by a proxy.

(2) Proxies may ask questions, vote and exercise all other rights of
    Members or Participants.

*Commentary*

In contrast to the rule in some jurisdictions that equity holders, such
as shareholders and cooperative members, cannot be represented by proxy,
the Model Law embraces the contemporary practice of allowing proxy
representation and voting. Delegation of voting rights is already common
in DAOs operating today. For example, in the case of compound.finance,
any COMP holder may delegate their voting rights to another Public
Address.[^41] Many compound.finance votes have been delegated to high
profile ecosystem members.[^42]

### 

### Article 10. MINORITY PROTECTION―

### In the interest of minority Members of DAOs: 

(1) The DAO must clearly state in its By-Laws whether it provides for
    > any kind of minority rights protection.

*Commentary*

The protection of minority rights, such as those of minority
shareholders, is an important principle in the corporate law of every
jurisdiction. With respect to DAOs, the ease of entry and exit, in
conjunction with the extensive disclosures inherent to such entities,
act as a first line of protection for minorities against abuses by
majorities. Furthermore, in line with the objective of using the DAO's
Dispute Resolution Mechanism to resolve disputes among Members (Article
4(1)(j)), minority Members may raise a dispute through the mechanism
that is specified at the time of DAO formation. DAOs may wish to provide
even greater protections to minority DAO Members, particularly in the
event of major or contentious decisions and transactions. The Model Law
provides room for such protections to be introduced through the DAO's
By-Laws (Article 10(1)). Several DAOs, for instance, have implemented
"ragequit" features (*e.g.*, MolochDAO, MCV), whereby Members unhappy
with specific decisions may immediately exit the DAO with their
proportional share of On-Chain funds.

*Chapter 4* 
-----------

Internal Organization and Disclosure 
------------------------------------

### Article 11. INTERNAL ORGANIZATION―

(1) The internal organization and procedures of the DAO must be set out
    > in its By-Laws.

*Commentary*

The Model Law seeks to avoid being overly prescriptive about the
internal organization of DAOs. Therefore, the founders, Administrators
and Members of a DAO have considerable leeway in designing the internal
organization and procedures of the DAO. This is akin to the flexibility
afforded to LLCs in several US states, and to LLPs and private companies
limited by shares in the United Kingdom. Given the nature of DAOs,
several of these procedures will be part of the code of a DAO's Smart
Contracts, but to maximize accessibility to laypersons, these internal
rules and procedures should be accurately represented in the DAO's
By-Laws as set forth in this Articles 11(1) and Article 4(1)(f).

### 

### Article 12. MEETINGS―

(1) A DAO will not be required to convene a general Meeting, but
    > Meetings may optionally be included in the By-Laws;

(2) There will be no requirement to have physical, in-person Meetings,
    > unless explicitly specified in the By-Laws;

(3) If the By-Laws do include a requirement to have meetings, it must
    > have an explicit, transparent mechanism of giving notice of
    > Meetings to Administrators, Members or Participants, as well as a
    > defined time period for deliberating upon submitted Proposals.
    > This Notice must be communicated through a GUI.

(4) The quorum and majority requirements for Meetings of DAO
    > Administrators, Members or Participants will be specified in the
    > By-Laws.

*Commentary*

In contrast to the archetypical Berle-Means corporation, characterized
by delegation to day-to-day management, frequent board meetings and
annual general meetings of shareholders, the current technical reality
of DAOs means that any decision for an action is taken by way of
Proposal, such that all On-Chain interactions may be considered part of
a continuously ongoing online general meeting. Questions may be asked at
any time and Proposals can be submitted continuously. This form of
direct participation makes the separate organization of a Meeting
redundant and potentially cumbersome. However, there may be DAOs which
may find it necessary to organize Meetings, between Administrators,
between Members or Participants and between all three, a need that can
be met through appropriate provisions in the By-Laws. The global and
digital nature of DAOs, in addition to the desire to preserve the
anonymity/pseudonymity of stakeholders, militates against the holding of
physical Meetings. If such in-person Meetings are compulsorily held,
this should be specified in the By-Laws.

If Meetings are required in a DAO, the requirement in Article 12(3) can
be fulfilled through the practice of submitting a Proposal to a DAO as a
suggestion for actions to be taken by the DAO, with this Proposal
clearly visible on a GUI and open for a defined time period (*e.g.*, 2
weeks) for deliberation and voting. The Article 12(4) requirements as to
quorum and majority voting requirements can be technically set to
prevent a Proposal from passage with insufficient quorum or by less than
majority support.

###  

### Article 13. ADMINISTRATORS―

### With respect to the delegation of powers and duties to certain persons:

(1) The DAO is not required to have Administrators, including a board of
    > directors or a trustee, unless mandated in its By-Laws. In the
    > absence of such a provision, all the powers and tasks of
    > Administrators will be vested in the DAO Members as a class;

(2) The voting mechanism for nominating and appointing Administrator(s)
    > will be set out in the By-Laws.

*Commentary*

Article 13(1) makes horizontal, direct decision-making the default of
DAOs, as opposed to the vertical, delegated management that can be seen
in the typical Berle-Means corporation. The specific manner in which
decision-making power and tasks are distributed is to be determined by
the DAO itself in its By-Laws. This, naturally, can include opting for
some form of delegated decision-making.

Where a DAO has appointed one or several Administrators(s) to represent
the DAO, the Administrator(s) will be elected by the DAO Members
according to a procedure agreed in the By-Laws of the DAO. The DAO's
public documentation will explicitly state who the authorized
Administrators(s) are.

### 

###  

### Article 14. LEGAL REPRESENTATION―

### With respect to the appointment of Persons to complete Off-Chain tasks:

(1) A DAO may choose to have one or more Legal Representatives to
    > undertake tasks that cannot be achieved On-Chain. Legal
    > representation can be limited to specific tasks, or it can be
    > generic to a broader category of tasks.

(2) Legal representation of the DAO will be carried out by the Legal
    > Representative in the manner provided in the By-Laws and as
    > evidenced by an authorization displayed on a Public Forum, whose
    > validity must be verifiable by cryptographic proof. The Legal
    > Representative(s) may undertake and execute any and all acts and
    > contracts included within the scope of such authorization.

(3) There are no requirements as to the residence or seat of the Legal
    > Representative(s).

(4) A Legal Representative will not be personally liable for acts done
    > on behalf of the DAO.

*Commentary*

The position of Legal Representative was created to enable DAOs to
engage with Off-Chain systems and processes, which may be increasingly
necessary as DAOs become involved in increasingly complex tasks and
activities as well as engagement with traditional third party entities.
As it cannot be expected that all foreseeable actors will interact with
the DAO On-Chain, the appointment of a Legal Representative allows for
DAOs to undertake specific tasks and activities---without leading to
classification of such Persons as fiduciaries of DAOs.

To give third parties transacting with DAOs assurance that a person is
authorized by the DAO as a Legal Representative, the continued validity
of an authorization should be verifiable by cryptographic proof and
simultaneous post in the Public Forum. If the authorization of a Legal
Representative is withdrawn, it should be withdrawn in the Public Forum
in which it was originally granted, as well as On-Chain, in order to
prevent tampering. In this instance, an example of a Public Forum could
be a website administered by a centralized operator or hosted in a
decentralized manner. A cryptographic proof could be a plain text
message cryptographically signed by a DAO multisig or individually by a
quorum of signers.

### 

### Article 15. NO IMPLICIT FIDUCIARY STATUS―

### With respect to Persons who make discretionary decisions in the interest of the DAO or specific stakeholders:

(1) Developers, Members, Participants or Legal Representative of a DAO
    > must not be imputed to have fiduciary duties towards each other or
    > third parties solely on account of their role, unless:

    a.  They explicitly hold themselves out as a fiduciary.

    b.  Their fiduciary status is stipulated in the DAO's By-Laws.

*Commentary*

In broad terms, a fiduciary is a Person who is entrusted with the
responsibility of acting in the best interest of another party and a
fiduciary duty is a legal obligation that seeks to ensure said Person
does in fact act in such a manner. Fiduciary duties are typically
assigned ex ante on the basis of a specific role (director, trustee,
etc.), or they are imputed ex post by a court to remedy for
unconscionable conduct in a relationship of trust and confidence. Among
examples of ex ante allocation of fiduciary duties is the corporate
board members' fiduciary duty to a corporation and a trustee's fiduciary
duties to the trust\'s beneficiaries. Thus, typically, a fiduciary is
aware of the fact that they are acting as fiduciaries on behalf of
another party and will accept legal and ethical obligations that flow
from holding such a fiduciary position. Fiduciary duties include the
duties of good faith, care and loyalty, and as these duties are open
textured, objective or subjective standards are used to assess whether
such duties have been violated.

However, as breaches of fiduciary duty entail significant penalties for
Persons held liable, only egregiously self-serving or negligent conduct
by Persons with control and wide discretion over a particular asset,
information or set of decisions are found guilty of such breaches.
Ordinary errors or failures that occur as part of the operation of a
business are sometimes protected by some version of a 'business
judgement' rule. In short, courts are reluctant to intervene in
run-of-the-mill commercial decisions.

Blockchain Developers, like most open source developers, make their code
available for public inspection and use code repositories such as
Github. They do not have control over the ways in which their code, once
written, is used or modified, nor can they usually impose a particular
code change onto the users of the software once released. Every
blockchain node must willingly upgrade their software in order to
incorporate a particular code change. Unlike service providers who can
force changes into an online platform without the consent of their user
base, blockchain Developers have no power to impose any code change on
the blockchain nodes.

Similarly, and as opposed to many commercial cryptocurrency exchange
operators or custodial wallet providers, individual DAO Members and
Participants do not usually have full control over the operations of the
DAO, although they might have different degrees of influence to the
extent that they can participate in the DAO's governance. It would be
unfair to hold these Members and Participants collectively liable by
default, for specific operations that they did not explicitly undertake
or operations they did not agree to in the decision-making process.

Finally, the DAO's Legal Representative, unless specified otherwise, is
merely an agent with limited and narrow discretion, appointed for
undertaking only specific administrative or procedural tasks mentioned
in the By-Laws, as opposed to taking decisions on behalf of the DAO. The
DAO's Legal Representative should not be considered to hold any
fiduciary duties towards any of the DAO Members or third parties
affected by the operations of the DAO. Accordingly, to ensure that
Developers, Members, Participants and Representatives of a DAO are not
implicitly classified as fiduciaries arising from their conduct in
relation to a DAO, the Model Law clearly states that a fiduciary
relationship does not arise solely on account of their role.

The Model Law acknowledges that there may be circumstances in which a
DAO wishes to assign fiduciary duties to specific Administrators,
Members, or Representatives, and therefore provides for such a fiduciary
position to be created via the DAO's own By-Laws or through explicit
action of the fiduciary (Articles 15(1)(a)-(b)). This Model Law does not
circumscribe the power of a judicial authority to impute fiduciary
duties on a Person ex post on account of *actual* unconscionable
behaviour, as opposed to such duties being imposed on any Person who
holds a particular role. By clarifying the nature of DAO stakeholders'
responsibilities and powers, we seek to provide greater legal certainty
to these stakeholders.

 

*Chapter 5*
-----------

DAO specific provisions 
-----------------------

Chapter 5 acknowledges that DAOs present new opportunities but also
challenges. These opportunities and challenges must be addressed
explicitly in the Model Law, and therefore do not have a counterpart in
traditional corporate law rules. We have included provisions on
Contentious Forks in the underlying blockchain (Articles 3(6), 16), DAO
restructuring (Article 17), and DAO failure events (Article 18).

As to Article 16, unlike corporations which can act as one authoritative
counterparty in their dealings by way of their separate legal
personality, DAOs can experience Hard Forks pursuant to which multiple
blockchain forks coexist, assets are duplicated and multiple
instantiations of a DAO are created on different chains. During a
Contentious Fork, there is an absence of an authority that makes a
definitive choice of a chain and thus, there is a lack of an
authoritative counterparty for a DAO. This is a particularly acute
problem when dealing with Off-Chain Assets and Persons, as the existence
of a single, authoritative counterparty is routinely expected.

Considering Article 17, the technological infrastructure of a DAO is
subject to continuous change as a result of upgrades, modifications and
migrations. The Model Law requires that DAOs maintain certain minimum
standards throughout these changes to ensure that 'restructurings' do
not subvert the standards and protections provided by this Model Law.
These standards were introduced so as to allow DAOs to continue to have
legal personality and their Members to retain limited liability as the
DAO evolves.

In the short history of DAOs, we have witnessed a series of Failure
Events. In Article 18, we address potential technical failures of DAOs
rendering DAOs unoperational or frustrating a DAO's expected operation.
Providing for legal personality and limited liability to DAOs under this
Model Law, we consider it important to clarify that DAOs subjected to
Failure Events do not lose such protections but only to the extent
necessary to protect DAO Members and Participants from personal
liability.

In contrast, there are standard provisions of business organization law
that are deliberately not addressed by this Model Law. There are three
main reasons for this.

First, as discussed in the Preamble, the technological infrastructure of
DAOs recognized by this Model Law allow them to meet certain legal
requirements and achieve certain policy objectives by way of functional
and regulatory equivalence. Such legal requirements, which are often
enshrined in provisions related to financial disclosures or share
transfers, are automatically met by the technological guarantees
provided by a blockchain-based system and do not need to be specified by
law. For example, a corporate statute may include a provision that a
share should be annotated with relevant information to trace ownership
when the share is transferred to another entity (*e.g.*, a trust), but
the inscription of the transfer on a public, Permissionless Blockchain
makes this information transparent by way of its ordinary functioning.
This is a functionally equivalent outcome, as this inscription on a
Permissionless Blockchain provides another means for tracing ownership
other than an annotation on the face of a share or an electronic record
update. As it is anticipated that a jurisdiction interested in adopting
the Model Law will also facilitate such functional equivalence, such an
example has not been addressed in this Model Law. At the same time, some
of the articles in the Model Law strive to achieve regulatory
equivalence, and might therefore introduce new regulatory requirements
that may either complement or supplement traditional regulatory
constraints. For instance, the article related to formation requirements
(Article 4) seeks to achieve regulatory equivalence with typical
corporate registration requirements.

Second, this Model Law provides a high degree of discretion to DAOs in
how they establish their organizational, governance and capital
structure (Chapter 4). As such, issues such as limitations on the
transferability and negotiability of tokens, criteria by which Members
are excluded from DAOs, internal and external dispute resolution
mechanisms and threshold requirements for By-Law amendments, among other
topics, are beyond the scope of this Model Law and left to the
individual discretion of DAOs.

Third, there are typical provisions of corporate law that concern
transactions that have yet to materialize with respect to DAOs. These
include Members' agreements, the substantial sale of the DAO's Off-Chain
Assets, conversions into DAOs, mergers with DAOs and liquidation and
dissolution. New legislation, such as the State of Wyoming's legislation
on decentralized autonomous organizations, addresses these provisions in
the context of the jurisdiction's own corporate law.[^43] However, at
this juncture, without more concrete examples of these transactions---or
at least, efforts at achieving the same---the drafting of model
provisions would be a largely speculative exercise and may ultimately
not support the ends that Participants and Members seek to achieve
through these transactions.

### 

### Article 16. CONTENTIOUS FORKS IN THE UNDERLYING BLOCKCHAIN―

### In the event of a Hard Fork in the underlying Permissionless Blockchain: 

(1) By default, the legal representation of the DAO remains on the
    Majority Chain and any Off-Chain Assets will belong to the DAO on
    the Majority Chain.

(2) The DAO may choose to maintain legal presence on a Minority Chain if
    it expresses its intent to do so by Public Signaling, and in that
    case any Off-Chain Assets will belong to the DAO on the selected
    Minority Chain.

(3) The DAO may liquidate its On-Chain Assets following a Hard Fork in
    order to move those Assets to the chosen chain.

(4) Alternatively, the DAO may choose to split into multiple legal
    entities, each on a separate chain, if it communicates by Public
    Signaling:

    a.  its intent to do so, and

    b.  there is a definitive distribution of Off-Chain Assets between
        the Majority and Minority Chain(s).

*Commentary*

Blockchains can undergo Hard Forks, as defined in Article 3(11).
Multiple blockchain forks can coexist and the decision concerning which
fork to use is a consensus-driven process that must be achieved without
a definitive source of authority making the decision for Members and
Participants. Ultimately, individual Members and Participants can decide
which fork to subscribe to.

This presents difficulties for interfacing with persons and entities
outside of the given blockchain, which expect one authoritative
counterparty for their dealings. Hard Forks could cause confusion
because they create multiple possible counterparties, where different
instantiations of the DAO reside on different chains. This is not an
issue for On-chain Assets, because they will be replicated on both
forks, and therefore can be managed and disposed of on the respective
chains. However, with Off-Chain Assets, which are scarce, third parties
(*e.g*., governments, property registers, custodians, brokers,
potentially insolvency professionals) interfacing with the DAO need to
have one definitive counterparty that is recognized as having legal
ownership of Off-Chain Assets and liabilities, as well as identified
Legal Representatives for that counterparty. For example, if two DAOs
replicated on competing forks were both to make a claim on the same
piece of real property, it can be difficult to ascertain which of the
two has a genuine and legitimate claim over this property. This Model
Law makes the Majority Chain the default choice, since Minority Chains
without significant support are typically not considered to be
authoritative representatives of the view of the community of the DAO.

Usually, the Majority Chain can be fairly and quickly identified
immediately after the Hard Fork. However, in the case of Contentious
Forks, it is possible that the Majority Chain may not be immediately
determined from the moment of the Hard Fork. Caution should be exercised
in this transition period. If the Majority Chain is not obvious after
the Fork, the following factors may be taken into account in order to
determine which fork should be regarded as the authoritative Majority
Chain:

-   *Security*: The blockchain with the greatest hashing power in the
    > case of a proof of work, or with the highest amount of deposits in
    > the case of a proof of stake.

-   *Applications, Services and Service Providers:* The blockchain that
    > is recognized and accepted by a majority of ancillary services and
    > service providers (*e.g*, trading protocols, exchanges, wallet
    > providers, oracles, data gateways), tokens and applications.

-   *Market Capitalization*: The blockchain whose Token is the most
    > valued by the market.

-   *Community Recognition*: the blockchain recognized by the majority
    > of developers, thought leaders, end users and other Members and
    > Participants.

-   *Trademark*: the blockchain that is formally recognized by the
    > entity holding the trademark (*e.g.*, the Ethereum Foundation
    > holds the Ethereum trademark).

### 

### Article 17. DAO RESTRUCTURING―

(1) In the event that there is not a Contentious Fork and a DAO's Smart
    > Contract is restructured through modification, upgrade or
    > migration, it will retain its legal personality and limited
    > liability only to the extent that:

    a.  The new code of the DAO continues to fulfill all the formation
        > requirements of Article 4;

    b.  In the event of migration, where the DAO has to be associated
        > with a new unique Public Address, proper notice is provided by
        > way of Public Signaling.

> Failure to meet these requirements will result in a loss of legal
> personality and limited liability effective at the time of
> restructuring.

(2) The DAO restructured in accordance with subsection (1) will be the
    > universal successor of the original DAO and inherit its rights and
    > obligations.

*Commentary*

A DAO may modify, upgrade or migrate its Smart Contracts to resolve a
software bug, augment capabilities, change operating procedure, meet
legal requirements or for technical maintenance. Modifications are
simple changes to the data in the DAO's smart contract, such as
modifications of voting majority thresholds. Upgrades can be made
through an existing function (*e.g.*, via a proxy contract). Finally,
migrations involve more substantial coordination, as entirely new Smart
Contracts may be deployed and migrated to. For example, a new DAO could
be constituted with the same membership distribution, and then the old
DAO would vote to move all funds and legal personality to the new DAO.

There is an important distinction between upgrades and modifications on
the one hand, where the DAO can still be identified through its unique
Public Address, and a migration on the other, where its identifying
Public Address has changed. This distinction implies that within
instances of modification or upgrades, there should not be any ambiguity
as to the validity of the upgrade or modification, so long as the DAO
continues to conform with the requirements of its legal status. However,
if a DAO migrates to a different Public Address, the DAO must provide
clear Public Signaling to move legal personality and all assets and
liabilities to the new Public Address.

An example of Public Signalling to help interpret Article 17(1)(b): A
DAO plans to migrate to a different Smart Contract with a different,
unique Public Address, but maintaining an identical distribution of
control and ownership rights among the same set of Members. The Members
of the DAO then pass a Proposal to such effect. If the Proposal is
passed and proper notice is given on the DAO's website and social media
accounts, then the legal personality of the DAO will be deemed to have
passed from the predecessor DAO to the successor DAO without
interruption. The original DAO will be deemed to have passed all rights
and obligations to its successor.

### 

### Article 18. FAILURE EVENT―

### In the case of a Failure Event:

(1) Legal personality and limited liability are maintained to the extent
    > necessary to protect DAO Members and Participants from personal
    > liability.

(2) A Failure Event may trigger liability on the Person(s) deploying or
    > upgrading the DAO if that Person(s):

    a.  acted in manifest bad faith; or

    b.  engaged in gross negligence.

*Commentary*

The Failure Event provisions are analogous to directors' liability under
corporate law. They are intended to address situations in which a person
with decision-making authority in a DAO acts in bad faith or, through
gross negligence, causes a technical failure that harms Members,
Participants, or the general public. As with director liability, there
is not an expectation that a person's decisions or actions will be
perfect, but they must be taken with the best interests of the DAO in
mind and fall within a reasonable range of possible decisions or
actions.

After a Failure Event, legal personality and limited liability will
typically be maintained in order to protect the interests of the DAO
Members and Participants. For example, in the case of a hack, a person
who can be said to have acted in bad faith or through gross negligence
may face liability for losses incurred in the Failure Event, but DAO
Members and Participants who simply took part would still be shielded by
the DAO's legal personhood and limited liability.

*Chapter 6*
-----------

Miscellaneous Provisions
------------------------

### Article 19. APPLICATION OF GENERAL BUSINESS ORGANIZATION LAW―

### The DAO will be governed by: 

(1) The By-Laws;

(2) The Model Law, as adopted or transposed into domestic legislation;
    > and

(3) To the extent that any lacunae remain, general business organization
    > law of the State that recognizes the DAO. Any ambiguity resulting
    > from this application will be resolved in a manner that upholds
    > the letter and objectives of the Model Law.

*Commentary*

There may be a few instances in which the By-Laws of a DAO and the Model
Law are not able to address all of the organizational and governance
issues that arise from the operation of a DAO. In such circumstances,
the general business organization law of the State that recognizes the
DAO may be used to address these lacunae. However, as general business
organization laws are generally drafted with centralized organizations
in mind, applying these laws may present their own difficulties. As a
consequence, any such application of general business organization laws
must only be done if the By-Laws and Model Law cannot be applied and any
resulting ambiguity must be resolved in a manner that upholds the letter
and objectives of the Model Law. These objectives can be found in the
Preamble of this Model Law.

### Article 20. TAXATION OF DAOs―

### The taxation of DAOs recognized by this Model Law will be based on the following principles:

(1) By default, any DAO recognized by this Model Law will be treated as
    > a pass-through entity for tax purposes, with no entity-level tax
    > accruing to the DAO. Any realized gains will pass through to the
    > DAO's Members in proportion to their Token holdings.

(2) Where a Member itself is not a taxable entity, such as another DAO,
    > the realized gains allocated to such Members will pass to the
    > first taxable person in the same manner as specified in Article
    > 20(1).

*Commentary*

With regards to their taxation treatment, the distinction between the
internet and cyberspace, as outlined by Lawrence Lessig, provides a
useful framework to characterize the unique attributes of DAOs vis-a-vis
digital entities hosted in the cloud.[^44] While transactions occurring
over the internet typically entail a clear correspondence with those of
taxable entities with a real-world existence, a DAO cannot be
conventionally connected to an agent or location on Earth. This is
primarily due to the fact that its processes and procedures are
predefined and deterministic, carried out by code existing in
cyberspace. Furthermore, the emergence of blockchain-based anonymization
techniques and decentralized exchanges compromise the enforcement of a
regulatory framework for taxation akin to that of cloud-based agents. In
that sense, David Shakow acknowledges that \"the pure blockchain form
does not work well for an entity under the IRC \[United States Internal
Revenue Code\]\".[^45]

Many questions regarding the taxation of DAO remain unaddressed by the
tax laws of national jurisdictions. These questions, highlighted by
Shakow, include the classification of DAOs as entities under tax law,
the tax residence of DAOs, the level at which investments in DAOs should
be taxed (entity-level or Member-level), the taxation of Members
liquidating their investment, the filing of tax returns and the
treatment of Hard Forks as taxable events for Token-holders who receive
Tokens from the forked chain. In addition, Airdrops as defined in
Article 3(4) pose additional unresolved complexity for the tax laws of
national jurisdictions. Despite the difficulties in achieving regulatory
equivalence, taxation is material for DAOs to recognize the social and
environmental costs inherent in the operation of DAOs that, in the
absence of taxation, would be imposed on other members of society.

As the tokenomics of DAOs imply that the value of a DAO is reflected in
the value of the Token(s) issued by the DAO or governing the DAO, making
DAOs pass-through entities for tax purposes seems to be the correct
approach. As such, the responsibility of paying tax on gains should fall
on Members and Participants, because in the case of unregistered DAOs,
which this Model Law addresses, only Members and Participants are
anchored in a jurisdiction. Accordingly, each Member or Participant is
solely responsible for declaring their financial stake in a DAO, if
required by the jurisdiction in which each Member or Participant is a
tax resident. It should be the sole obligation of the Members or
Participants to declare their capital gains on the disposition of
DAO-related Tokens or similar transactions.

**Contributors**
================

**Constance Choi** COALA, CNRS, Seven Advisory
==============================================

**Primavera De Filippi** COALA, Berkman Klein, CNRS
===================================================

**Rick Dudley** Vulcanize
=========================

**Silke Noa Elrifai** Gnosis
============================

**Fatemeh Fannizadeh** Geneva.Legal
===================================

**Florence Guillaume** UniNE, LexTech Institute
===============================================

**Andrea Leiter** UvA
=====================

**Morshed Mannan** EUI, Leiden
==============================

**Greg McMullen** Greg McMullen Law
===================================

**Sven Riva**  UniNE, LexTech Institute
=======================================

**Ori Shimony** dOrg
====================

[^1]: The Preamble provides the legal foundations of 'regulatory
    equivalence' and 'functional equivalence', as well as a discussion
    of the widespread recognition of certain forms of transnational
    private legal ordering and, in particular, the work on creating
    model laws for new corporate/organizational forms.

[^2]: *Alegality* is a concept that is useful for understanding actions
    that are currently not seen by the legal system, and that might
    potentially challenge the boundaries of the legal order, and the
    distinction between legal and illegal. Arguably, some of the
    activities undertaken on a public, permissionless blockchain could
    be regarded as *alegal*, either because they are not (yet)
    encompassed by the law, or because they stand outside of its reach.
    For instance, the decentralized nature of public blockchain networks
    makes them virtually impossible to shut down, even if one or more
    states shut down nodes within their jurisdiction. Moreover, because
    smart contract applications are run and executed in a decentralized
    fashion, any smart contracts or DAOs deployed on a public blockchain
    will continue to operate independently of the will of the parties
    deploying them, and will also be impossible to shut down. This
    brings them into the *alegal* realm. This is not to say, however,
    that the law cannot reconstitute its boundaries in order to
    accommodate their existence and to influence their operations. Yet,
    this requires a conscious intervention from the legislator in order
    to recognize them under the law so as to bring them within the scope
    of *legality* or *illegality*, depending on the circumstances. The
    adoption of the DAO Model Law by existing governments is a way for
    them to reconstitute their legal boundaries to accommodate the
    regulation of DAOs within their existing legal framework in a
    harmonized fashion. For more information on alegality, see Hans
    Lindahl, *Fault Lines of Globalization: Legal Orders and the
    Politics of A-legality* (Oxford University Press, 2013); Hans
    Lindahl, 'Border Crossings by Immigrants: Legality, Illegality, and
    Alegality' (2008) 14 Res Publica 117; Hans Lindahl, 'The Opening:
    Alegality and Political Agonism', in Andrew Schaap (Ed.), *Law and
    Agonistic Politics* (Ashgate 2009); Vanja Hamzić, 'Alegality:
    Outside and beyond the legal logic of late capitalism' in Honor
    Brabazon (Ed.)*, Neoliberal Legality: Understanding the Role of Law
    in the Neoliberal Project* (Routledge 2017); Carys Hughes, 'Action
    Between the Legal and the Illegal: A-Legality as a Political--Legal
    Strategy' (2019) 28 Social & Legal Studies 470.

[^3]: This understanding draws on, among other things, the principle
    laid down by the US Supreme Court in *Bank of Augusto v. Earle*, 38
    US 519 (1839) that though a legal entity (such as a corporation) is
    an artificial creature of national law and only exists because of
    that law, "it does not by any means follows that its existence there
    will not be recognised in other places; and its residence in one
    state creates no insuperable objection to its power of contracting
    in another." *Also see*, Katharina Pistor, *The Code of Capital: How
    the Law Creates Wealth and Inequality* (Princeton University Press,
    2019), 68.

[^4]: United Nations Commission on International Trade Law. UNCITRAL
    Model Law on Electronic Commerce, with Guide to Enactment, 1996:
    with Additional Article 5 Bis as Adopted in 1998.

[^5]: *See, e.g.*, Regulation (EU) No. 910/2014 of 23 July 2014 on
    electronic identification and trust services for electronic
    transactions in the internal market and repealing Directive
    1999/93/EC \[2014\] OJ L 257/73, art 25(2).

[^6]: Regulatory equivalence in its most common use refers to the
    equivalence of the regulatory regime of two different jurisdictions,
    often in the context of trade or financial regulations.

[^7]: Note that some jurisdictions have adopted a different approach
    than our Model Law by creating new types of registered DAO forms
    (*e.g.*, Malta, Wyoming) rather than providing a legal framework
    where unregistered DAOs qualify as legal entities if they meet
    certain conditions such as those outlined in the Model Law. In our
    opinion these approaches are limited in that they do not properly
    leverage the technological and crossborder characteristics of
    blockchain technology.

[^8]: *See, e.g.*, Lorraine Talbot, 'Critical Corporate Governance and
    the Demise of The Ultra Vires Doctrine' (2009) 38 Common Law World
    Review 170.

[^9]: Early examples included \"Hutten-DDO\" (formed to support
    collaborations between a group of Siemens employees, such as their
    charitable donations), \"YangDAO\" (formed to support decentralized
    content creation for former US Presidential candidate Andrew Yang)
    and \"OrochiDAO\" (formed to coordinate around the creation of side
    events at blockchain conferences).

[^10]: Reinier Kraakman and others, *The anatomy of corporate law: a
    comparative and functional approach* (Oxford University Press 2009)
    section 1.2.1.

[^11]: ibid.

[^12]: This definition shall also apply to any layer 2 solutions.

[^13]: Open Source Initiative, "The Open Source Definition" (*The Open
    Source Definition \| Open Source Initiative,* March 22, 2007)
    \<https://opensource.org/docs/osd\> accessed May 8, 2021.

[^14]: OECD Model Tax Convention 2017, art 3(1)(a).

[^15]: OECD Report on the Application of the OECD Model Tax Convention
    1999, paras 29-30.

[^16]: Jeremy Bentham, "Principles of Penal Law" in John Bowring (ed),
    *The Works of Jeremy Bentham*, vol 1 (William Tate 1838) part 3,
    chapter 12, problem 9, 557.

[^17]: Johann Gottlieb Fichte, *Foundations of Natural Right: According
    to the Principles of the Wissenschaftslehre* (Frederick Neuhouser
    ed, Michael Baur tr, Cambridge University Press 2000) 295.

[^18]: Colin Koopman, *How We Became Our Data: A Genealogy of the
    Informational Person* (University of Chicago Press 2019) 29.

[^19]: European Union, 'Service of Documents - England & Wales'
    (*European e-Justice Portal - Cooperation in civil matters* June 25,
    2018)
    \<https://e-justice.europa.eu/content\_service\_of\_documents-371-ew-en.do?member=1\#toc\_6\>
    accessed May 8, 2021.

[^20]: European Union, 'Service of Documents- Netherlands' (*European
    e-Justice Portal - Cooperation in civil matters* June 25, 2018)
    \<https://e-justice.europa.eu/content\_service\_of\_documents-371-nl-en.do?member=1\#toc\_6\>
    accessed May 8, 2021.

[^21]: ServeNow Staff, "Service of Process via WhatsApp"
    (*serve-now.com*, March 12, 2019)
    \<https://www.serve-now.com/articles/2580/service-of-process-via-whatsapp\>
    accessed May 8, 2021.

[^22]: Ron Harris, 'A New Understanding of the History of Limited
    Liability: an Invitation for Theoretical Reframing' (2020) 16
    Journal of Institutional Economics 643, 644.

[^23]: Stephen Bainbridge and M. Todd Henderson, *Limited Liability: A
    Legal and Economic Analysis* (Edward Elgar Publishing 2016) 46.

[^24]: ibid, 49.

[^25]: ibid, 59.

[^26]: On this risk with respect to shareholders of unlimited liability
    entities, see Richard Posner, *Economic Analysis of Law* (4th ed.,
    Little, Brown and Company 1992) 394.

[^27]: Stephen Bainbridge and M. Todd Henderson, *Limited Liability: A
    Legal and Economic Analysis* (Edward Elgar Publishing 2016) 61.

[^28]: *See* in the context of *pro rata* shareholder liability, Henry
    Hansmann and Reinier Kraakman, 'Toward Unlimited Liability for
    Corporate Torts' (1991) 100 Yale Law Journal 1879, 1880.

[^29]: Henry Hansmann, Reinier Kraakman and Richard Squire, 'Law and the
    Rise of the Firm' (2006) 119 Harvard Law Review 1333, 1341.

[^30]: Anton Jäger, 'State and Corporation in American Populist
    Political Philosophy, 1877-1902', The Historical Journal (online
    first view), 9-10.

[^31]: *Wyoming Decentralized Autonomous Organization Supplement*, Wyo.
    Stat. § 17-31-110 to 17-31-116.
    \<[[https://legiscan.com/WY/bill/SF0038/2021]{.underline}](https://legiscan.com/WY/bill/SF0038/2021)\>
    accessed 8 May 2021.

[^32]: Abraham Singer, *The Form of the Firm: A Normative Political
    Theory of the Corporation* (Oxford University Press 2019) 185-186;
    Robert Rhee, 'Bonding Limited Liability' (2010) 51 William and Mary
    Law Review 1417, 1450-1453.

[^33]: Nexus Mutual, 'FAQ' (*Nexus Mutual Gitbook*, February 2021)
    \<[[https://nexusmutual.gitbook.io/docs/welcome/faq]{.underline}](https://nexusmutual.gitbook.io/docs/welcome/faq)\>
    accessed 8 May 2021.

[^34]: Fritz Ewang, 'EU Minimum Capitalisation Requirement: An Analysis
    and Critique of the EU's Minimum Capitalisation Requirement' (2007)
    15
    \<[[http://ssrn.com/abstract=1015708]{.underline}](http://ssrn.com/abstract=1015708)\>
    accessed 8 May 2021.

[^35]: DLA Paper, 'Minimum Capital Requirement' (*DLA Piper
    Intelligence.com*, 2 April 2021)
    \<[[https://www.dlapiperintelligence.com/goingglobal/corporate/index.html?t=03-minimum-capital-requirement]{.underline}](https://www.dlapiperintelligence.com/goingglobal/corporate/index.html?t=03-minimum-capital-requirement)\>
    accessed 8 May 2021.

[^36]: Massimo Miola, 'Legal Capital and Limited Liability Companies:
    The European Perspective' (2005) 4 European Company and Financial
    Law Review*,* 413, 419.

[^37]: Case C-212/97 *Centros Ltd v Erhvervs- og Selskabsstyrelsen*
    \[1999\] ECR I-1459.

[^38]: Fritz Ewang, 'EU Minimum Capitalisation Requirement: An Analysis
    and Critique of the EU's Minimum Capitalisation Requirement' (2007)
    5, 17
    \<[[http://ssrn.com/abstract=1015708]{.underline}](http://ssrn.com/abstract=1015708)\>
    accessed 8 May 2021.

[^39]: Yilun Cheng, 'Tron takeover? Steem community in uproar as crypto
    exchanges back reversal of blockchain governance soft fork' (*The
    Block*, 2 March 2020)

    \<[[https://www.theblockcrypto.com/post/57508/tron-steem-takeover-crypto-exchanges-governance-reversal-soft-fork-blockchain]{.underline}](https://www.theblockcrypto.com/post/57508/tron-steem-takeover-crypto-exchanges-governance-reversal-soft-fork-blockchain)\>
    accessed 8 May 2021.

[^40]: Additionally, this Model Law distinguishes a DAO split, in which
    members of a DAO affirmatively vote to separate a DAO's assets,
    governance and financial rights, from a blockchain fork. A DAO split
    is analogous to a traditional private company contemplating
    divestment, demerger or hive down.

[^41]: Compound Finance, 'Delegate' (*Compound Finance Docs*, 2021)
    \<[[https://compound.finance/docs/governance\#delegate]{.underline}](https://compound.finance/docs/governance#delegate)\>
    accessed 8 May 2021.

[^42]: Compound Finance, 'Leaderboard' (*Compound Finance Governance*, 8
    May 2021)
    \<[[https://compound.finance/governance/leaderboard]{.underline}](https://compound.finance/governance/leaderboard)\>
    accessed 8 May 2021.

[^43]: *Wyoming Decentralized Autonomous Organization Supplement*, Wyo.
    Stat. § 17-31-110 to 17-31-116 (enters into force on 1 July 2021)
    \<[[https://legiscan.com/WY/bill/SF0038/2021]{.underline}](https://legiscan.com/WY/bill/SF0038/2021)\>
    accessed 8 May 2021.

[^44]: Lawrence Lessig, *Code: And Other Laws of Cyberspace, version
    2.0* (Basic Books, 2006), 5.

[^45]: David Shakow, 'The Tao of The DAO: Taxing an Entity That Lives on
    a Blockchain' (2018) 160 Tax Notes 929, 937. Insertion is ours.
