
A DAO may modify, upgrade or migrate its Smart Contracts to resolve a
software bug, augment capabilities, change operating procedure, meet
legal requirements or for technical maintenance. Modifications are
simple changes to the data in the DAO's smart contract, such as
modifications of voting majority thresholds. Upgrades can be made
through an existing function (*e.g.*, via a proxy contract). Finally,
migrations involve more substantial coordination, as entirely new Smart
Contracts may be deployed and migrated to. For example, a new DAO could
be constituted with the same membership distribution, and then the old
DAO would vote to move all funds and legal personality to the new DAO.

There is an important distinction between upgrades and modifications on
the one hand, where the DAO can still be identified through its unique
Public Address, and a migration on the other, where its identifying
Public Address has changed. This distinction implies that within
instances of modification or upgrades, there should not be any ambiguity
as to the validity of the upgrade or modification, so long as the DAO
continues to conform with the requirements of its legal status. However,
if a DAO migrates to a different Public Address, the DAO must provide
clear Public Signaling to move legal personality and all assets and
liabilities to the new Public Address.

An example of Public Signalling to help interpret Article 17(1)(b): A
DAO plans to migrate to a different Smart Contract with a different,
unique Public Address, but maintaining an identical distribution of
control and ownership rights among the same set of Members. The Members
of the DAO then pass a Proposal to such effect. If the Proposal is
passed and proper notice is given on the DAO's website and social media
accounts, then the legal personality of the DAO will be deemed to have
passed from the predecessor DAO to the successor DAO without
interruption. The original DAO will be deemed to have passed all rights
and obligations to its successor.

### 

