
Blockchains can undergo Hard Forks, as defined in Article 3(11).
Multiple blockchain forks can coexist and the decision concerning which
fork to use is a consensus-driven process that must be achieved without
a definitive source of authority making the decision for Members and
Participants. Ultimately, individual Members and Participants can decide
which fork to subscribe to.

This presents difficulties for interfacing with persons and entities
outside of the given blockchain, which expect one authoritative
counterparty for their dealings. Hard Forks could cause confusion
because they create multiple possible counterparties, where different
instantiations of the DAO reside on different chains. This is not an
issue for On-chain Assets, because they will be replicated on both
forks, and therefore can be managed and disposed of on the respective
chains. However, with Off-Chain Assets, which are scarce, third parties
(*e.g*., governments, property registers, custodians, brokers,
potentially insolvency professionals) interfacing with the DAO need to
have one definitive counterparty that is recognized as having legal
ownership of Off-Chain Assets and liabilities, as well as identified
Legal Representatives for that counterparty. For example, if two DAOs
replicated on competing forks were both to make a claim on the same
piece of real property, it can be difficult to ascertain which of the
two has a genuine and legitimate claim over this property. This Model
Law makes the Majority Chain the default choice, since Minority Chains
without significant support are typically not considered to be
authoritative representatives of the view of the community of the DAO.

Usually, the Majority Chain can be fairly and quickly identified
immediately after the Hard Fork. However, in the case of Contentious
Forks, it is possible that the Majority Chain may not be immediately
determined from the moment of the Hard Fork. Caution should be exercised
in this transition period. If the Majority Chain is not obvious after
the Fork, the following factors may be taken into account in order to
determine which fork should be regarded as the authoritative Majority
Chain:

-   *Security*: The blockchain with the greatest hashing power in the
    > case of a proof of work, or with the highest amount of deposits in
    > the case of a proof of stake.

-   *Applications, Services and Service Providers:* The blockchain that
    > is recognized and accepted by a majority of ancillary services and
    > service providers (*e.g*, trading protocols, exchanges, wallet
    > providers, oracles, data gateways), tokens and applications.

-   *Market Capitalization*: The blockchain whose Token is the most
    > valued by the market.

-   *Community Recognition*: the blockchain recognized by the majority
    > of developers, thought leaders, end users and other Members and
    > Participants.

-   *Trademark*: the blockchain that is formally recognized by the
    > entity holding the trademark (*e.g.*, the Ethereum Foundation
    > holds the Ethereum trademark).

### 

