
In broad terms, a fiduciary is a Person who is entrusted with the
responsibility of acting in the best interest of another party and a
fiduciary duty is a legal obligation that seeks to ensure said Person
does in fact act in such a manner. Fiduciary duties are typically
assigned ex ante on the basis of a specific role (director, trustee,
etc.), or they are imputed ex post by a court to remedy for
unconscionable conduct in a relationship of trust and confidence. Among
examples of ex ante allocation of fiduciary duties is the corporate
board members' fiduciary duty to a corporation and a trustee's fiduciary
duties to the trust\'s beneficiaries. Thus, typically, a fiduciary is
aware of the fact that they are acting as fiduciaries on behalf of
another party and will accept legal and ethical obligations that flow
from holding such a fiduciary position. Fiduciary duties include the
duties of good faith, care and loyalty, and as these duties are open
textured, objective or subjective standards are used to assess whether
such duties have been violated.

However, as breaches of fiduciary duty entail significant penalties for
Persons held liable, only egregiously self-serving or negligent conduct
by Persons with control and wide discretion over a particular asset,
information or set of decisions are found guilty of such breaches.
Ordinary errors or failures that occur as part of the operation of a
business are sometimes protected by some version of a 'business
judgement' rule. In short, courts are reluctant to intervene in
run-of-the-mill commercial decisions.

Blockchain Developers, like most open source developers, make their code
available for public inspection and use code repositories such as
Github. They do not have control over the ways in which their code, once
written, is used or modified, nor can they usually impose a particular
code change onto the users of the software once released. Every
blockchain node must willingly upgrade their software in order to
incorporate a particular code change. Unlike service providers who can
force changes into an online platform without the consent of their user
base, blockchain Developers have no power to impose any code change on
the blockchain nodes.

Similarly, and as opposed to many commercial cryptocurrency exchange
operators or custodial wallet providers, individual DAO Members and
Participants do not usually have full control over the operations of the
DAO, although they might have different degrees of influence to the
extent that they can participate in the DAO's governance. It would be
unfair to hold these Members and Participants collectively liable by
default, for specific operations that they did not explicitly undertake
or operations they did not agree to in the decision-making process.

Finally, the DAO's Legal Representative, unless specified otherwise, is
merely an agent with limited and narrow discretion, appointed for
undertaking only specific administrative or procedural tasks mentioned
in the By-Laws, as opposed to taking decisions on behalf of the DAO. The
DAO's Legal Representative should not be considered to hold any
fiduciary duties towards any of the DAO Members or third parties
affected by the operations of the DAO. Accordingly, to ensure that
Developers, Members, Participants and Representatives of a DAO are not
implicitly classified as fiduciaries arising from their conduct in
relation to a DAO, the Model Law clearly states that a fiduciary
relationship does not arise solely on account of their role.

The Model Law acknowledges that there may be circumstances in which a
DAO wishes to assign fiduciary duties to specific Administrators,
Members, or Representatives, and therefore provides for such a fiduciary
position to be created via the DAO's own By-Laws or through explicit
action of the fiduciary (Articles 15(1)(a)-(b)). This Model Law does not
circumscribe the power of a judicial authority to impute fiduciary
duties on a Person ex post on account of *actual* unconscionable
behaviour, as opposed to such duties being imposed on any Person who
holds a particular role. By clarifying the nature of DAO stakeholders'
responsibilities and powers, we seek to provide greater legal certainty
to these stakeholders.

 

*Chapter 5*
-----------

DAO specific provisions 
-----------------------

Chapter 5 acknowledges that DAOs present new opportunities but also
challenges. These opportunities and challenges must be addressed
explicitly in the Model Law, and therefore do not have a counterpart in
traditional corporate law rules. We have included provisions on
Contentious Forks in the underlying blockchain (Articles 3(6), 16), DAO
restructuring (Article 17), and DAO failure events (Article 18).

As to Article 16, unlike corporations which can act as one authoritative
counterparty in their dealings by way of their separate legal
personality, DAOs can experience Hard Forks pursuant to which multiple
blockchain forks coexist, assets are duplicated and multiple
instantiations of a DAO are created on different chains. During a
Contentious Fork, there is an absence of an authority that makes a
definitive choice of a chain and thus, there is a lack of an
authoritative counterparty for a DAO. This is a particularly acute
problem when dealing with Off-Chain Assets and Persons, as the existence
of a single, authoritative counterparty is routinely expected.

Considering Article 17, the technological infrastructure of a DAO is
subject to continuous change as a result of upgrades, modifications and
migrations. The Model Law requires that DAOs maintain certain minimum
standards throughout these changes to ensure that 'restructurings' do
not subvert the standards and protections provided by this Model Law.
These standards were introduced so as to allow DAOs to continue to have
legal personality and their Members to retain limited liability as the
DAO evolves.

In the short history of DAOs, we have witnessed a series of Failure
Events. In Article 18, we address potential technical failures of DAOs
rendering DAOs unoperational or frustrating a DAO's expected operation.
Providing for legal personality and limited liability to DAOs under this
Model Law, we consider it important to clarify that DAOs subjected to
Failure Events do not lose such protections but only to the extent
necessary to protect DAO Members and Participants from personal
liability.

In contrast, there are standard provisions of business organization law
that are deliberately not addressed by this Model Law. There are three
main reasons for this.

First, as discussed in the Preamble, the technological infrastructure of
DAOs recognized by this Model Law allow them to meet certain legal
requirements and achieve certain policy objectives by way of functional
and regulatory equivalence. Such legal requirements, which are often
enshrined in provisions related to financial disclosures or share
transfers, are automatically met by the technological guarantees
provided by a blockchain-based system and do not need to be specified by
law. For example, a corporate statute may include a provision that a
share should be annotated with relevant information to trace ownership
when the share is transferred to another entity (*e.g.*, a trust), but
the inscription of the transfer on a public, Permissionless Blockchain
makes this information transparent by way of its ordinary functioning.
This is a functionally equivalent outcome, as this inscription on a
Permissionless Blockchain provides another means for tracing ownership
other than an annotation on the face of a share or an electronic record
update. As it is anticipated that a jurisdiction interested in adopting
the Model Law will also facilitate such functional equivalence, such an
example has not been addressed in this Model Law. At the same time, some
of the articles in the Model Law strive to achieve regulatory
equivalence, and might therefore introduce new regulatory requirements
that may either complement or supplement traditional regulatory
constraints. For instance, the article related to formation requirements
(Article 4) seeks to achieve regulatory equivalence with typical
corporate registration requirements.

Second, this Model Law provides a high degree of discretion to DAOs in
how they establish their organizational, governance and capital
structure (Chapter 4). As such, issues such as limitations on the
transferability and negotiability of tokens, criteria by which Members
are excluded from DAOs, internal and external dispute resolution
mechanisms and threshold requirements for By-Law amendments, among other
topics, are beyond the scope of this Model Law and left to the
individual discretion of DAOs.

Third, there are typical provisions of corporate law that concern
transactions that have yet to materialize with respect to DAOs. These
include Members' agreements, the substantial sale of the DAO's Off-Chain
Assets, conversions into DAOs, mergers with DAOs and liquidation and
dissolution. New legislation, such as the State of Wyoming's legislation
on decentralized autonomous organizations, addresses these provisions in
the context of the jurisdiction's own corporate law.[^43] However, at
this juncture, without more concrete examples of these transactions---or
at least, efforts at achieving the same---the drafting of model
provisions would be a largely speculative exercise and may ultimately
not support the ends that Participants and Members seek to achieve
through these transactions.

### 

