
Participation rights in DAOs may take the form of tokenized governance
powers, which may include the ability to propose, vote, and veto
Proposals, as well as confer financial rights, which may include revenue
and profit-sharing, bonding redemption rights, and service access
rights, among others. Such participation rights and responsibilities,
whether in the form of governance or financial powers, may be purchased,
earned programmatically, granted through proposals, or distributed in
any way defined in the DAO's By-Laws. The Model Law requires a DAO's
software code, On-Chain Assets and transaction record to be publicly
available and transparent to Members and Participants, so it does not
impose a restriction on distributions, as with traditional non-profit
companies or foundations. These 'non-distribution constraints' exist in
such organizations to prevent fiduciaries and key employees siphoning
valuable assets from the organization for personal gain, and to build
trust in the organization's capacity to achieve their social,
environmental or charitable purpose. The signaling function provided by
the technological guarantees of a DAO, as well as the diverse mechanisms
designed by Members to enter and exit a DAO, provide sufficient
safeguards to dispense with the need for specific restrictions on
distributions within a DAO.

In the traditional corporate form, governance and financial rights
usually coincide, but this is not necessarily the case for DAOs. A DAO
can delineate various governance and financial rights via its
Token-based system and distinguish amongst its participants those
Token-holders to whom governance powers have also been granted. This
Model Law contemplates that only those persons holding governance rights
should be considered Members of the DAO who determine the actions of the
DAO, and thus hold a higher level of responsibility. An example of an
important stakeholder in the DAO ecosystem who would not be classified
as Members are persons who hold Tokens on centralized exchanges. In such
situations, the user usually only has a claim on the centralized
exchange, but doesn't have actual ownership of the Tokens, which is a
prerequisite for membership. The lack of actual ownership of Tokens by
users was well demonstrated in a dispute in 2020 over the Steemit
platform.[^39] In March 2020, centralized exchanges, including Binance,
Poloniex and Huobi, used user deposits of STEEM, the native Token of the
Steemit blockchain, to help oust all of Steemit's nodes known as
"witnesses" that secure the Steemit blockchain in favour of one single
witness (node) controlled by Tron's founder Justin Sun. The move was
heavily criticized within the blockchain ecosystem, which has arguably
resulted in more hesitant usage of user deposits by centralized
exchanges. However, the matter highlights the discrepancy between legal
ownership, possession and lack of actual control by users over Token
deposits in centralized exchanges, which, therefore, should not qualify
as conferring membership rights.

This Article does not apply to Contentious Forks (Article 16 and
commentary). Blockchains can undergo hard forks, as defined in Articles
3(13) and 16. As such, multiple blockchain forks can coexist and which
fork to use is a consensus-driven process that must be achieved without
a definitive source of authority determining the result. Because these
replications can occur without affirmative action on the part of
Participants, this Model Law does not contemplate that governance
responsibilities should be automatically conferred to Members of a DAO
involuntarily subject to a Hard Fork. As described in Chapter 5, there
are several factors to be considered in the determination of the
majority fork. Ultimately, individual participants and market
aggregations decide which fork emerges as the authoritative counterparty
in transactions. In this Model Law, Article 7(2)(b) requires a Token
holder to make an affirmative action or acknowledgement to be considered
a Member participating in a DAO, and therefore the involuntary doubling
of Tokens and associated governance and financial participation rights
that occurs during blockchain forks are exempted from this Article.[^40]

Similarly, this Model Law exempts Airdrops (Article 3(3)) from Article
7. Airdrops occur when a DAO distributes tokens to Public Address
without knowledge or consent from the owner of the Public Address. Due
to the nature of blockchains, a Public Address cannot block incoming
transactions. As such, Airdrop distributions confer Tokens and
associated participation rights on Persons involuntarily, and are
therefore exempt from Article 7. This Model Law requires that Token
holders voluntarily and affirmatively engage in an On-Chain interaction
with a DAO (Article 7(2)(b)) to be considered a Member of a DAO.
Recently, many governance token distributions have been organised as
so-called "merkle airdrops" (or merkledrops), which require the user
whose Public Address received the merkledrop to actively redeem the
Tokens and pay any associated transaction fees. The definition of
Airdrops (see Article 3(3)) used in this Model Law does not encompass
merkledrops, for which users must affirmatively and voluntarily accept
the merkledrop and the associated participation and governance rights.

### 

