
As the objective of the Model Law is to bridge the technical and legal
gap between the multiple existing and potential activities of DAOs and
traditional regulatory frameworks that have yet to adapt to the new
social organizations enabled by permissionless participation, the Model
Law applies only to DAOs operating on Permissionless Blockchains.
Permissionless Blockchains enable a multiplicity of participants to
coordinate on a decentralized basis, in which control of the DAO is
established among various actors via a Token-based system, and such
permissionless participation is the foundational basis of DAOs. These
emergent forms of social and economic coordination require updates to
traditional corporate legal frameworks to apply public policy mechanisms
in a manner that takes technical realities into account. New political
and legal economies that can be gained from the technical
functionalities afforded by DAOs require this kind of cautious and
effective adaptation of corporate law frameworks to DAOs.

Permissionless Blockchains can be distinguished from permissioned
blockchains, in which blockchain software is deployed by a narrow subset
of pre-defined actors by a series of predefined accounts and can
therefore be considered centrally controlled and coordinated.
Permissioned blockchains are more akin to a traditional private
corporation or foundation in terms of having centralized governance,,
and, as such, applications on permissioned blockchains do not require
new legal frameworks to operate.

DAOs deployed on Permissionless Blockchains raise the possibility of
interacting with persons and entities one does not know. In the late
1770s, in writing about penal law, Bentham posed the question: "Who are
you, with whom I have to deal?"[^16] This question strikes at the heart
of the problem of being able to accurately and truthfully identify a
stranger. At the time, the lack of standardization of proper names
provided numerous opportunities to deceive counterparties. As Fichte
noted soon after, this lack of identifiability compromised
policing.[^17] While both had the identifiability of natural persons in
mind,[^18] the need to know *who* one is dealing with is also essential
for legal persons.

In a majority of jurisdictions, this identifiability requirement is met
by giving a company a unique name that distinguishes it from other
companies, a unique identification number and a registered office
address, which can be used to find the company in a business register. A
search of such a business register usually provides the name of at least
one of the directors of said company. Through the formation requirements
mentioned in this Article 4, we strive for regulatory equivalence by
meeting this identifiability objective, while also acknowledging the
unique properties of DAOs and the implicit goal of DAOs to conduct
transactions digitally and maintain the pseudonymity of Administrators,
Members and Participants.

An example of this is Article 4(1)(b), which requires the specification
of a Public Address. Any DAO has---by technical requirement---at least
one unique Public Address. The Public Address usually reveals the
blockchain the DAO is based on, although this is not so in the case of a
Hard Fork. The public policy goal requiring a company to have a name to
distinguish one company from another is met by the identification of a
Public Address of a DAO, which may be considered its default name in the
absence of a unique name communicated by Public Signaling. This Public
Address is communicated publicly as part of the requirement in Article
4(1)(c) to have the whole software code of the DAO published in Open
Source Format.

As mentioned above, in most jurisdictions, a legal person must have a
physical, registered address. While there are varied policy goals behind
this requirement, we consider (1) the need of stakeholders and third
parties (*e.g.*, a national legal system) to communicate with a legal
entity; and (2) the need to determine its *lex societatis* (*i.e.*, the
national law that governs the entity), to be the two most important
reasons for having a physical, registered address. In general, a
physical, registered address---even if limited to a mailbox---is
important due to the need for Persons or the legal system to serve legal
documents. While service of documents by e-mail or fax is already
possible in several jurisdictions for civil proceedings (*e.g.*, England
& Wales),[^19] it is not universally the case (*e.g.*, in the
Netherlands).[^20]

A jurisdiction that adopts the Model Law should also permit the
electronic service of legal documents by any communication mechanism
publicly specified by a DAO (Article 4(1)(i)), such as a secure website
which the authorities of a jurisdiction can post notice to and from
which it can receive cryptographically signed acknowledgement. Courts in
both India and the United Kingdom have recently indicated support for
novel electronic means of serving legal documents, so long as the
intended recipient can be correctly identified and there is an
indication that they have been served (*e.g.*, a "blue double tick" on
Whatsapp).[^21] In the case of DAO Administrators or Members,
identification would usually be enabled by their public address on the
blockchain, not their name. For the sake of transparency and to avoid
the maintainer of the communication mechanism being held inadvertently
and individually responsible for the actions of a DAO, this publicly
specified communication mechanism should be accessible by any Member of
the DAO. At the same time, this communication mechanism should not
permit a Member or Administrator to unilaterally delete or amend
communications.

The second policy goal of determining the laws and procedures that
govern a DAO is met by specifying a Dispute Resolution Mechanism for
disputes arising among Members (Article 4(1)(j)) and for disputes with
third parties that can be subject to alternative dispute resolution
mechanisms (Article 4(1)(k)). In other words, we consider that
compliance by the DAO's software code with Article 4 of the Model Law
satisfies the policy goals behind the traditional requirement of having
a seat. Instead of requiring a DAO to submit to and physically establish
a presence in every jurisdiction in which they operate, the Dispute
Resolution Mechanism gives Members and other stakeholders means of
redress against the DAO, should the need arise. Dispute Resolution
Mechanisms with non-member third parties do not have to meet minimum
standards of due process for the time being, as no on-chain ADR process
currently meets such standards and is unlikely to do so in the
foreseeable future. However, third parties who enter into agreements
with DAOs should be informed upfront about the Dispute Resolution
Mechanism the DAO has opted into and that it may not meet the standards
of due process that they might expect in an Off-Chain dispute resolution
process, such as court litigation. This gives the third party prior
notice and option to avoid transactions with the DAO and, if they choose
to enter into such transactions, they do so on the basis of 'participant
beware'. However, at a minimum, any final decision or settlement
resulting from the Dispute Resolution Mechanism must be made public,
after anonymizing the names and other personally identifiable
information of the disputing parties, where relevant. Jurisdictions
should recognise any final decision reached by the Dispute Resolution
Mechanism. For matters that cannot be resolved by an ADR or binding
arbitration procedure, a Legal Representative will be appointed
(Articles 3(15), 14) to represent the interests of a DAO as a legal
entity.

In many jurisdictions, the promoters assisting in the incorporation of a
limited liability company must set authorized, subscribed and paid-in
capital, along with the number of shares to be issued, the different
classes of shares, their par value, and the terms and conditions on
which the payment for their subscription will be made. We consider the
overarching policy goal of this requirement to be ensuring that an
entity has sufficient capital to meet its debts to creditors and to
provide a structure for capital investments and tradability of shares.
In the case of DAOs, the policy goal is automatically met by its
technical reality: the funding situation, governance and any Token
issuance may be read by anyone from the Permissionless Blockchain
(Article 4(1)(a)). However, as only a minority of experts are able to
reliably and accurately read the information from a blockchain directly,
only DAOs that have a minimum of one publicly available GUI (Article
4(1)(e)) and have completed software Quality Assurance (Article 4(1)(d))
will be able to benefit from protection under the Model Law.

Similarly, a limited liability company is typically required to have a
statute or constitution, often known as the Articles of Association or
By-Laws, sometimes supplemented by or encompassed in an Operating
Agreement or Membership Agreement, which include rules for the
management of the affairs of the company, including its administrators
and its representatives in relation to third parties, along with the
names and powers of any such persons or entity(ies). A DAO's By-Laws are
by default laid down in its software code. However, as only a minority
of experts are able to reliably read the DAO's code, only DAOs providing
for a one-to-one version of the rules in plain language on a GUI
(Article 4(1)(f)) and a governance system with at least one Member
(Article 4(1)(h)) will be able to benefit from protection under the
Model Law.

*Chapter 3*
-----------

Limited Liability, Asset Subscription and Members' Rights
---------------------------------------------------------

