
The subscription of minimum capital, with a large amount paid up front
before the commencement of business, has typically been a mechanism to
prevent the abuse of the privilege of limited liability. The policy
objectives of having a minimum capital requirement include protecting
creditors, signaling the availability of certain assets to meet the
claims of creditors (particularly involuntary ones who cannot bargain
for better protections), preventing the frivolous formation of limited
liability companies, demonstrating that a new business is credit-worthy
and nudging directors to recapitalize an undercapitalized business.[^34]
However, as is current practice with private limited liability companies
in several jurisdictions,[^35] we do not see minimum capital
subscription as being necessary for DAOs, due to its inadequacy in
serving its main intended purpose: protecting creditors from members and
fiduciaries siphoning assets.[^36] In the European Union, the *Centros*
judgment has made clear that companies are free to circumvent minimum
capital rules by registering in a foreign jurisdiction which provides
lower minimum capital requirements, given that there are other
mechanisms to protect the interests of creditors.[^37] The paying-up of
a portion of minimum capital prior to the formation and operation of a
business does not prevent the business from returning the cash of
promoters as a salary, in exchange for goodwill or as a loan soon after
it becomes operational.[^38] Nor are the sums committed to these
businesses typically sufficient to meet the claims of unsecured,
involuntary creditors, such as employees. Voluntary creditors do not
look towards minimum capital to determine the credit-worthiness of a
business but instead concentrate on other metrics such as net worth or
cash flow, as well as the business's ability to furnish security. Given
existing market-based challenges and formation requirements imposed by
this Model Law, we do not see a justification for creating an additional
barrier to entry to small, under-resourced DAOs in the form of a minimum
capital requirement, particularly where such a requirement is rapidly
falling out of favor for the reasons discussed above.

Instead, as the inherent technical features of a Permissionless
Blockchain and this Model Law require a DAO's software code, On-Chain
Assets and transaction records to be publicly available (Article
4(1)(e)), the financial position of a DAO and the risks inherent in it
are made transparent to any creditors. As such, the signaling functions
of minimum capital requirements are achieved through technological
means. Furthermore, DAOs have diverse mechanisms for entry and exit
designed according to the needs of their Members, such as withdrawal of
Tokens (akin to the withdrawal of shares in cooperatives in the UK) or
the transfer of TTokens to third parties (akin to the transfer of shares
in limited liability companies). We believe the law should allow for
this flexibility to protect the interests of Members with minority Token
holdings.

We anticipate that one of the critiques of not having a minimum capital
and granting limited liability to DAOs will be that it will allow an
insolvent or near-insolvent DAO seeking to exploit its
undercapitalization and the limited liability of its Members to engage
in risky ventures that could, among other things, lead to tort
liability. Due to its poor financial position, such a DAO may not be
able to meet tort claims, while shielding Members from liability.
However, multinational corporations engage in such risk transfer
practices on a regular basis. The financial position of a DAO will be
transparent to all stakeholders due to the existence of a GUI that can
be used to examine its Assets (Article 4(1)(e)). To assuage concerns
regarding economic credibility and creditworthiness, a DAO that seeks
limited liability protection for its Members may consider maintaining
relevant insurance coverage or reserve funds in escrow to satisfy such
claims.

### 

