
Limited liability of shareholders, while being a defining and important
feature of the modern corporation, has not always been an attribute of
corporations. According to Harris, limited liability evolved since the
1600s over three distinct periods from a system of no limited liability
(circa. 1600-1800) to a multiplicity of hybrid liability regimes (circa.
1800-1930) to 'strong' owner shielding in the twentieth century.[^22] It
was only in this third period that creditors were granted legal priority
over equity holders in claiming corporate assets.

There are several legal and economic grounds for why limited liability
became a uniform attribute of the corporation. With the growth of large,
complex corporations in the United States with dispersed shareholding
structures, it became apparent that it was untenable for individual
shareholders to have 'moral culpability'[^23] for the actions of
corporations, as they lacked the power and control mechanisms to
discipline errant management. At the same time, limited liability allows
risk-averse persons to take business risks that they may have otherwise
avoided, thereby enhancing the chances of gaining a lucrative return, as
the risks of a poor investment are shifted onto creditors and other
third parties.[^24] Ordinarily, shareholders that enjoy limited
liability only stand to lose what they have invested in the event of
insolvency. As a consequence, shareholders are also able to invest in
multiple corporations without having to closely monitor any of
them.[^25] This is a clear example of how corporate legal requirements
evolved to address the inherent trade-offs underlying public policy
goals to enhance or enable political and social economies afforded by
implementation of such rules. Voluntary creditors are able to, however,
protect themselves from the moral hazard of shareholders by imposing
higher interest rates on any loans extended to the corporation and by
negotiating limitations on actions that a corporation can take without
creditor approval. Involuntary creditors, such as tort victims, may seek
to pierce the corporate veil so as to satisfy the claims they may have
against individual shareholders or parent companies, but globally such
efforts at veil piercing are generally unsuccessful outside of cases of
fraud.

As a corollary to this, there are legal and economic grounds for why
unlimited liability is less favored by contemporary corporate entities,
although certain corporate entities have unlimited liability as a
mandatory rule (*e.g.*, in general partnerships) or as a default rule
(*e.g.*, cooperative societies in some jurisdictions). While unlimited
liability would offer voluntary and involuntary creditors some solace
that shareholders would be jointly and severally liable for any claims
that remain unsatisfied by the corporate entity, this would be poorly
suited to the interests of members of an entity that has potentially
thousands-if not millions-of anonymous members and aspires towards
participatory governance, such as a DAO. It is the combination of these
two attributes, among other things, that makes the governance of a DAO
distinct from that of an archetypical Berle-Means corporation.

It could be argued that, as with other business organizations with
unlimited liability, the ability of Members to participate in governance
would be sufficient to ameliorate vertical (principal-agent) and
horizontal agency problems (majority-minority principals). However, the
fact that many of the other Members are unknown would, in principle,
heighten the apprehension of Members that Tokens could be sold to poorer
third parties and thereby increase their collective risk.[^26] In other
words, in the absence of limited liability, DAOs would have to adopt a
rule similar to general partnerships, that to sell their
membership-conferring Tokens on a secondary market would require
unanimous consent of all Members[^27]―a requirement that would be
cumbersome and costly for DAOs, as it would decrease the liquidity of
their tokens. For voluntary and involuntary creditors,[^28] joint and
several liability may also lose its appeal when confronted with the
reality that they would potentially have to pursue individual claims
against several, dispersed Members. It is arguable that it is even
unfair that creditors be able to arbitrarily pursue actions against
individual Members, based on the accessibility of the Members'
jurisdiction or wealth. At the same time, it creates social costs as it
is society that has to bear the costs related to the public enforcement
of these liability claims.

The above summarizes some of the main advantages of an entity having
limited liability and the central disadvantages of having unlimited
liability, so as to explain why the Members of a DAO should be extended
limited liability. In addition to the aforementioned legal and economic
benefits of limited liability, the absence of such protection for
Members would discourage participation in a growing market and stymie
the development of innovative financial and non-financial products.
While limited liability can be privately ordered―for example, by having
representatives of the entity negotiate contractual clauses where
creditors agree to waive any claim on Members' assets―this is an
expensive exercise prone to moral hazard.[^29] Instead, we seek limited
liability to be *granted* to DAOs compliant with other requirements
articulated in the Model Law, as it has been in the past with a
multitude of other corporate entities[^30] and as it has recently come
into force in the State of Wyoming.[^31]

Understandably, there may be concerns regarding the abuse of limited
liability. This may be addressed by DAOs by introducing a requirement
for Members to make a financial contribution to a reserve fund or
towards the premiums of an appropriate insurance policy for the benefit
of limited liability. Such a bond in exchange for limited liability has
been advocated by Robert Rhee and Abraham Singer.[^32] Some DAOs may
decide to sequester some of their On-Chain Assets in a specially
designed Smart Contract, which will pay out in case of liability.
Insurance customised to the needs of a DAO may be able to cover a larger
share of potential future liabilities, however, the novelty and
riskiness inherent in this sector make such coverage prohibitively
expensive. Nonetheless, we have included this voluntary option with the
view that insurance providers will gradually emerge to respond to the
needs of this space, as can be seen with the example of Nexus
Mutual.[^33] In addition, the veil piercing option in Article 5(3)
further mitigates risks of abuse of Members' limited liability, while
Article 5(3) ensures Members cannot simply refuse to pay a judgment
against the DAO. Note that Articles 5(1) and (3) does not make Members
liable for excess liability the DAO is unable to pay from its Assets,
but only for an outright refusal by the DAO to respond to judgment
against it.

###  

