[Executive Summary](#_c8ofrbksznxf) 2

**Executive Summary**
=====================

New models of blockchain-based organizations, often referred to as
Decentralized Autonomous Organizations (DAOs), face significant legal
uncertainty that can be detrimental to their development and
utilization. This Model Law (ML) aims to create uniformity and legal
certainty, while, unlike other regulatory frameworks for DAOs, still
accommodating flexibility for further innovation by not imposing formal
registration requirements.

The drafters and contributors to the ML have sought to consciously
address the vertical (principal-agent), horizontal (majority-minority
principals) and firm-stakeholder agency problems that can be seen in
corporate entity forms irrespective of jurisdiction, while still being
sensitive to, and retaining, the particular features of DAOs and
crypto-economic systems that make these forms of organization and
coordination unique and valuable as emergent social and commercial
vehicles. States are encouraged to adopt or transpose the ML's
provisions into their domestic law. In a State that has transposed or
adopted the ML into their domestic legal system, a DAO that is
constituted according to the requirements of the transposed or adopted
legal rules will qualify and be recognized as a legal entity by that
State. This will result in the DAO being granted legal personality in
any State that has adopted or transposed the ML, which is essential to
guarantee the legal effect of the DAO's action. If the ML's provisions
are complied with, the DAO's Members will additionally enjoy limited
liability. To allow for DAOs to qualify as legal entities in the maximum
number of States, the ML provides a minimum level of rights, duties and
protections that are generally recognized in legislation on analogous
corporate entities in major jurisdictions. In addition, if a DAO
qualifies as a legal entity in a particular jurisdiction, the legal
effects of its actions and the protections offered to its Members,
Participants, Legal Representatives and Administrators may be more
easily recognized in other jurisdictions that have not adopted or
transposed the ML under private international law principles.

As many unregistered DAOs will fail to comply with existing corporate
rules by nature of their intrinsic operation, and will not be able to
implement all of the necessary legal requirements formally articulated
in existing corporate rules, the ML strives to achieve functional and
regulatory equivalence through specific provisions of the ML. Functional
equivalence allows the establishment of equivalence between an object
already within the realm of a legal rule and another object not yet
encompassed by it. For instance, the UNCITRAL Model Law for Electronic
Commerce establishes functional equivalence between a paper-based
document and an electronic document. As this Model Law demonstrates,
this approach is useful for simplifying the regulation of DAOs. For
example, instead of introducing new corporate rules specifically
applicable to 'tokenized' shares, shares that are recorded on a
blockchain-based system could be regarded as valid titles to a share,
transferable via a blockchain-based registry. Regulatory equivalence
relies on the same technique, but identifies the object or purpose of
any given regulation as goal. It allows for the establishment of
equivalence between the function of a legal rule and the function of a
technology. A pertinent example of regulatory equivalence is the
relationship between registration requirements for corporate entities
and the deployment of a DAO on a Permissionless Blockchain. The
deployment of a smart contract on a blockchain with relevant data about
a DAO is not functionally equivalent to registration into a corporate
registry, but the policy objectives of publicity and certainty are fully
achieved. Following a public announcement of the Public Address of the
DAO, the deployment is verifiable by anyone, as it is inscribed on a
Permissionless Blockchain.

In view of the above objectives, the ML consists of the following
Chapters:

Chapter 1 sets out the broad range of economic and social activities
that DAOs can engage in, the rights and obligations that DAOs can enjoy
as a separate legal person, and important definitions used in the ML.

Chapter 2 sets out the eleven technical and governance requirements that
a DAO needs to meet to benefit from legal personality, and for its
Members to receive limited liability protection.

Chapter 3 sets out the potential actions that may lead to Members
forfeiting limited liability protection, namely fraud and failure to
comply with binding arbitral awards or court orders. This is intended to
limit the grounds on which a Member may be jointly liable with a DAO,
while not precluding the possibility that a Member may be personally
liable (*e.g.*, under tort law principles). The chapter also clarifies
that minimum capital requirements are not mandatory for DAOs, as is
increasingly the case with traditional corporate entities, while still
acknowledging that some DAOs may wish to voluntarily introduce reserve
funds and insurance schemes to enhance public confidence in their
ability to meet their debts to third party creditors. The remainder of
the chapter is devoted to governance rights, providing considerable
leeway to DAOs to create multiple classes of participation and diverse
voting rights structures, as well as the possibility to protect
minorities and appoint proxies.

Chapter 4 builds on the question of how a DAO under the ML is to be
governed. It seeks to allow individual DAOs to have considerable
flexibility in how their internal organization and procedures take
place, without being bound by the same constraints that a number of
corporate entities are subject to (*e.g.*, in-person, physical
meetings). The ML enables management by consensus as well as the
appointment of Administrator(s). It recognizes that, irrespective of how
the DAO is managed, the DAO may need to have representation off-chain
for certain purposes and activities. This chapter therefore provides a
procedure for appointing a Legal Representative with narrowly-defined
powers that can interact with territorially bound national
jurisdictions. In the spirit of contractual freedom, DAOs are permitted
to appoint fiduciaries if they wish, but the ML makes clear that merely
holding a position with a particular title and having certain
potentially discretionary decision-making power (*e.g.*, core Developer,
Administrator, Member) should not be in itself sufficient to imply
fiduciary status.

The provisions of Chapters 1-4 are akin to most corporate law statutes
and address the aspects of DAOs that are similar to other business
organizations. Chapter 5, in contrast, recognizes that DAOs have
technical features that raise new questions that merit specific
treatment. This Chapter, therefore, includes specific articles that
concern the consequences of Contentious Forks, modifications, upgrades
and migrations on the legal personality of a DAO (as well as its claims
and assets) and the limited liability of its Members. Moreover, there
may be Failure Events that are specific to DAOs, which under this
chapter may lead to the liability of Persons who are grossly negligent
or acting in manifest bad faith in making a decision, but will not
attach to those not involved in the decision.

Chapter 6 is the final part of the ML and includes two important miscellaneous provisions that are necessary in creating a coherently complete legal framework for DAOs. First, it specifies when general business organization law should be applied to DAOs by a jurisdiction that adopts the ML. Only lacunae in the by-laws and the ML should be filled by domestic general business organization law, and if there is any ambiguity arising from this gap-filling function, it should be resolved in a manner that upholds the objectives and letter of the ML. Second, it establishes the recognition of DAOs as pass-through entities for tax purposes, so as to simplify the process of taxation for DAOs which are non-territorial and transnational by their nature, and instead make Members and Participants responsible for tax compliance. 

    
